## Question 10.1.5

**Paragraph Number:**
10.1.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Chief Engineer and engineer officers familiar with the operation,
inspection and testing of the means provided to control propulsion machinery and
related auxiliary systems locally in the event of failure of a remote-control system?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the engineer officers can respond promptly and effectively in the event of a failure of the remote
control of propulsion machinery or a related auxiliary system.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures that defined the operation, inspection and
testing of the means provided to control the propulsion machinery and related auxiliary systems locally.
• Inspect the manual controls or HMIs (human machine interfaces) at local control stations and the
instructions posted nearby.
• Review inspection and testing records available at local control stations or in the engine control room.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections and tests carried out contained within the planned
maintenance system.
• Interview the accompanying engineer officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The operation, inspection and testing of the local control systems.
o The means of communication with the navigation bridge from the control station(s)
• If the vessel was fitted with a CPP, interview a navigation officer to verify their familiarity with the failure
mode of the CPP.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection and testing of the means provided to control the
propulsion machinery and related auxiliary systems locally.
• The inspection and test records for the local control systems.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection and testing of the means provided to
control the propulsion machinery and related auxiliary systems locally.
• The accompanying engineer officer was not familiar with the purpose, operation and testing of the
propulsion local control systems.
• Ship specific operating instructions for the local control systems were not posted close to the control
locations
• The planned maintenance system did not include the means provided to control the propulsion machinery
locally or the required inspections and tests
• Records of inspections and tests carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the local control locations indicated that actions recorded in the planned maintenance system
had not in fact taken place.
• The means of communication from any local control location was not ready for immediate use or was
defective
• There was no notice posted, either on the navigating bridge or the machinery space, indicating the failure
mode of the CPP, if fitted.
• An interviewed navigation officer was unaware of the CPP failure mode, if fitted.
• The local control systems were defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
10.2. Machinery Status
