## Question 10.1.4

**Paragraph Number:**
10.1.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Chief Engineer and engineer officers familiar with company procedures
for periodic machinery space rounds and monitoring of the machinery space during both
manned and unmanned (UMS) periods, and were log book entries and checklists
available to confirm that the inspections had been completed as required?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF: Recommendations on Engineering Watch/Duty Period Handover and Inspection Routines

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the machinery spaces had been monitored to effectively manage machinery in operation and
on standby while in both manned and unmanned modes.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which defined the requirement for routine
monitoring of machinery during manned operation and prior to and during unmanned machinery space
periods.
• Review checklists and vessel logbooks and verify that the machinery space rounds had been completed in
accordance with the company procedure during both manned and unmanned periods.
• Verify that the machinery space round checklists in use covered all sections of the machinery space and all
principal machinery applicable to the vessel and its operation.
• Verify that the pre-UMS period checklist included checks of the proper functioning off all systems required to
be fitted under SOLAS II-1 Part E.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Select an item from one of the checklists provided and verify that the accompanying engineer officer was
familiar with the purpose of the check and how to carry it out.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which defined the requirement for routine monitoring of machinery during manned
operation and, prior to and during unmanned machinery space periods.
• Checklists for machinery space rounds during manned operation and prior to unmanned machinery space
operation.
• Machinery space operational records for recent voyages.
• Machinery space alarm records for recent voyages.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no procedure that required periodic machinery space rounds during manned periods and prior to
unmanned periods.
• The accompanying engineer officer was unfamiliar with the company procedures for monitoring the
machinery spaces during manned and unmanned operation.
• There were no vessel specific checklists for periodic inspections of the machinery space during manned
periods and prior to unmanned operation.
• The accompanying engineer officer was unfamiliar with any of the checks required to be conducted during
the machinery space rounds and included on the checklists.
• The periodic rounds of the machinery spaces had not been carried out in accordance with the company
procedures.
• The machinery space had been operated in the unmanned mode for a period exceeding that permitted by
company procedures and/or class rules.
• The machinery space had been operated in the unmanned mode in circumstances where company
procedures required the machinery space to be operated in the manned mode.
• The vessel had been operated in the manned mode during open sea passages due to reliability concerns
where the cause of the concern was not entered into the defect reporting system for rectification.
• The vessel had been operated in the UMS mode with equipment and/or systems required under SOLAS II-1
Part E out of service or defective.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
