## Question 10.1.2

**Paragraph Number:**
10.1.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Chief Engineer and engineer officers familiar with the company
procedures for testing main propulsion, steering gear, thrusters and power generation
plant prior to use and at critical points during a voyage or operation, and were checklists
and log book entries completed as required?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room, Steering Gear
Publications
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 33.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all machinery required for safe navigation is tested to verify full functionality and availability
at key stages of a voyage or operation.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which defined the machinery tests required to
be carried out pre-arrival, pre-departure and at defined stages during a voyage or operation.
• Review a recently completed pre-arrival, pre-departure and/or pre-transit machinery check list or record and
verify that the required tests were completed in compliance with the company expectations.
• Randomly select an item from the pre-arrival, pre-departure and/or pre-transit machinery check list and
verify that the accompanying engineer officer understood how to complete the test or check.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Review the Engine Room Log Book and other items such as printers and data loggers as necessary to verify
that the required machinery tests had been completed at the appropriate points within a recent voyage or
operation.
• Where defects or abnormalities were present during machinery tests which could not be immediately
rectified by onboard staff, verify that the defect had been communicated to the bridge and entered into the
defect reporting system for later rectification.
• Where safe to do so, request the accompanying engineer officer to demonstrate the local operation of the
steering gear.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which defined the pre-arrival, pre-departure and/or pre-transit machinery testing
requirements.
• Completed pre-arrival, pre-departure and pre-operational machinery checklists or the required wipe-clean
checklist along with the supporting logbook entries to verify satisfactory completion of the required tests.
• Evidence that machinery and equipment defects detected during the testing program had been noted and
either immediately repaired by onboard staff or that the defect had been communicated to the bridge and
entered in the defect reporting system for later repair.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no documented procedure for testing and checking equipment and machinery at defined points in
the voyage.
• The accompanying engineer officer was unfamiliar with the machinery testing process or any test or check
that was required to be carried out by the vessel specific checklist.
• The accompanying engineer officer was unfamiliar with the local operation of the steering gear.
• Checklists did not reflect the equipment fitted to the vessel or the tests and/or checks required to be carried
out at defined points prior to and within the voyage.
• Machinery and equipment tests and/or checks required by the company procedures had not been completed
and documented.
• Defects detected during the equipment and machinery testing process had not been recorded as either
being repaired immediately or entered into the defect reporting system for later rectification.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
