## Question 10.1.1

**Paragraph Number:**
10.1.1

---

### **Question**
Had the Chief Engineer prepared Standing Orders, supplemented by Daily Orders,
which emphasised and reinforced the company expectations with regards to engine
room management and, if so, had all engineer officers signed to acknowledge their
understanding of the same?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room
Publications
OCIMF: Recommendations on Engineering Watch/Duty Period Handover and Inspection Routines
IMO: ISM Code
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all engineer officers are aware of the key expectations of both the company and the Chief
Engineer with respect to the management of the vessel’s machinery spaces.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which outlined the requirement for the Chief
Engineer to develop Standing Orders and Daily Orders along with their expected content.
• Review the Chief Engineer’s Standing and Daily Orders and verify that the content of each was aligned with
the company expectations, reflected the equipment fitted to the vessel and, in the case of the daily orders,
the vessel’s operation.
• Review the Engine Room Log Book and other records for a recent operation and verify that the instructions
given in the daily orders had been complied with.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for developing the Chief Engineer’s Standing Orders and for writing Daily Orders.
• The current Chief Engineer’s Standing Orders signed by the Chief Engineer and all engineer officers.
• The Daily Order Book with each dated and timed entry signed by the Chief Engineer, and subsequently,
each watchkeeping officer before taking over their watch or period of duty.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The Engine Room Log Book and other records to support the changes of machinery space operating mode
and the status of machinery.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure defining the requirement for the Chief Engineer to prepare Standing and
Daily Orders.
• The accompanying engineer officer was unfamiliar with the content of the Chief Engineer’s Standing or Daily
orders.
• The Chief Engineer had not prepared their own Standing Orders which were signed and dated at the time of
taking over the responsibilities as Chief Engineer.
• The engineer officers onboard at the time of the inspection had not signed the Standing Orders, (unless they
had only joined that day).
• The content of the Standing Orders was in contradiction to the company procedures for managing the
machinery space or any machinery or equipment.
• The Standing Orders did not define the Chief Engineer’s expectations in respect of:
o Entry into the machinery spaces during periods of UMS.
o The actions to be taken when a machinery space alarm is activated, particularly when equipment
involved was identified as critical.
o The actions to be taken when machinery or equipment is found to be defective.
o Supervision and documentation of bilge water, sludge, fuel oil and lube oils transfers and disposal.
o Instructions for the supervision and documentation of Incinerator use.
o Instructions and limitations for hot and cold work in the engine room workshop.
• The Chief Engineer had not prepared Daily Orders which were signed, dated and timed, to supplement their
Standing Orders (not generally required for days where vessel was operating with periodically unmanned
machinery spaces and in open ocean).
• The watchkeeping engineer officers had not signed the Chief Engineer’s Daily Orders for understanding.
• Review of Engine Room Log Books and/or other records indicated that instructions contained within the
Chief Engineer’s Standing or Daily orders had not been followed. (A negative observation should not be
raised where a change in circumstances, such as a delay in mooring/unmooring had occurred.)
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
