## Question 10.1.3

**Paragraph Number:**
10.1.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Chief Engineer and engineer officers familiar with company procedures
for periodic rounds and monitoring of the machinery space, and were log book entries
and checklists available to confirm that the rounds had been completed as required?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF: Recommendations on Engineering Watch/Duty Period Handover and Inspection Routines

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the machinery spaces had been effectively monitored to manage machinery in operation and
on standby.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which defined the requirement for routine
monitoring of machinery and machinery spaces.
• Review checklists and vessel logbooks and verify that the required machinery space rounds had been
completed in accordance with the company procedures.
• Verify that the machinery space round checklists in use covered all sections of the machinery space and all
principal machinery applicable to the vessel and the various operations undertaken.
• Select an item from one of the checklists presented and verify that the accompanying officer was familiar
with the required check, how to perform it and what data needed to be recorded.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which defined the requirement for routine monitoring of machinery spaces.
• Checklists for machinery space rounds.
• Engine room operational records for recent voyages.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no procedure that required periodic machinery space rounds.
• The accompanying engineer officer was unfamiliar with the company procedures for monitoring the
machinery spaces.
• The accompanying engineer officer was unfamiliar with any of the checks required to be conducted during
the machinery space rounds and included on the checklists.
• There were no vessel specific checklists for periodic rounds of the machinery space.
• The periodic rounds of the machinery spaces had not been carried out in accordance with the company
procedure.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
