## Question 10.2.2

**Paragraph Number:**
10.2.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Chief Engineer and engineer officers familiar with the company
procedures for the regular inspection, maintenance and testing of the ship’s emergency
batteries, and were the batteries fully charged and in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the emergency source of electrical power is always ready in all respects.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and if necessary, review the company procedures for the regular inspection, maintenance and testing
of the emergency battery source of electrical power.
• Review the records of:
o Inspection of the batteries.
o Assessment of the condition of the batteries.
o Periodic testing of the complete emergency battery system including bringing it onload as part of a
blackout simulation test.
• Inspect the emergency battery compartment to verify the batteries are in satisfactory physical condition.
• During the inspection of the machinery space, verify that the emergency batteries are fully charged, and the
battery charger is functional.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The company procedures for the regular inspection, maintenance and testing of the emergency
battery source of electrical power.
o The periodic testing of the complete emergency battery system including bringing it onload as part
of a blackout simulation test.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the regular inspection, maintenance and testing of the emergency battery source
of electrical power.
• Records of:
o Inspection of the batteries.
o Assessment of the condition of the batteries.
o Periodic testing of the complete emergency battery system.
o The date the batteries were installed.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the regular inspection, maintenance and testing of the emergency
battery source of electrical power, including:
o Inspection of the batteries.
o Assessment of the condition of the batteries.
o Periodic testing of the complete emergency battery system.
o The battery retirement criteria based on either the maximum service life and/or functional condition.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the regular inspection,
maintenance and testing of the emergency battery source of electrical power.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the periodic testing of the complete emergency battery
system including bringing the system online as part of a blackout simulation test.
• There were no records of the regular inspection, maintenance and testing of the emergency battery source
of electrical power.
• There were no records of the periodic testing of the complete emergency battery system including bringing
the system on load as part of a blackout simulation test.
• Records indicated that regular inspection, maintenance and/or testing of the emergency battery source of
electrical power had not taken place in accordance with company procedures.
• Records of testing of voltage and specific gravity indicated that the batteries were not in satisfactory
condition.
• The batteries had not been replaced in accordance with the company defined retirement criteria.
• The batteries were not in satisfactory physical condition.
• The metal terminals of the batteries were exposed and not protected by rubber or plastic caps or other
protective devices to prevent arcing or shorting.
• The battery locker or compartment was being used for storage or contained inappropriate material.
• The batteries were not fully charged.
• The battery charger was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
