## Question 10.2.3

**Paragraph Number:**
10.2.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Chief Engineer and engineer officers familiar with the company
procedures for the operation, calibration and maintenance of the exhaust gas cleaning
system (EGCS), and were required safety and regulatory measures being complied with?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Engine Control Room, Chief Engineer's Office
Publications
IMO: MEPC.1/Circ.883 Guidance on indication of ongoing compliance in the case of the failure of a single monitoring
instrument
and recommended actions to take if the Exhaust Gas Cleaning System (ECGS) fails…
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MARPOL
OCIMF Guide for Implementation of Sulphur Oxide Exhaust Gas Cleaning Systems
IMO: Resolution MEPC.259(68) 2015 Guidelines for exhaust gas cleaning systems

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the EGCS is operated safely in accordance with company procedures and applicable regulations
and local/national limitations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and where necessary, review the:
o Company procedures for the operation, calibration and maintenance of the EGCS.
o Required documentation for the EGCS.
o Risk assessments for the operation, calibration and maintenance of the EGCS.
o The planned maintenance records for the EGCS.
• As far as it is safe and practicable, inspect the EGCS.
• During the Inspection of the EGCS, request that the accompanying officer describes:
o The routine operation of the EGCS plant with reference to any checklists provided by the company
or manufacturer for this purpose.
o The action to take in the case of system failure or deviation from normal operation.
o How to close the EGCS overboard valve (normally open) in an emergency.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the operation, calibration and maintenance of the EGCS.
• Any checklists provided for the routine operation of the EGCS.
• The planned maintenance records for the EGCS.
• Risk assessments for the operation, calibration and maintenance of the EGCS.
• Records of crew training or familiarisation in the operation, calibration and maintenance of the EGCS.
• Sox Emissions Compliance Plan.
• EGCS Technical Manual.
• Onboard Monitoring Manual.
• EGCS Record Book or electronic logging system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, calibration and maintenance of the exhaust gas
cleaning system (EGCS) that included:
o The identification of associated hazards.
o Crew training requirements.
o PPE and signage requirements.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Instructions for routine operations, calibration and maintenance.
o Actions to be taken in the case of system failure or deviation from normal operation.
o Records to be kept (may be electronic or hard copy).
• There were no risk assessments available for the operation, calibration and maintenance of the EGCS.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation, calibration and
maintenance of the EGCS.
• There was evidence that the vessel had operated the EGCS in locations where the company procedure or
local/national regulations prohibited its use.
• There was evidence that spent/waste chemicals and/or residual sludge/wastewater had not been managed
and disposed of in accordance with the company procedures and/or any applicable regulation.
• The chemicals and/or compressed gasses used or produced by the EGCS were not stored in accordance
with company procedures.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the routine operation of the EGCS.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with how to close the EGCS overboard valve in an emergency.
• There was no evidence of crew training or familiarisation in the operation, calibration and maintenance of the
EGCS.
• The following documents were not available on board:
o Sox Emissions Compliance Plan.
o EGCS Technical Manual.
o Onboard Monitoring Manual.
o EGCS Record Book or electronic logging system.
• The maintenance and calibration of the EGCS was not included in the planned maintenance system.
• The maintenance and calibration of the EGCS had not been carried out as required by the planned
maintenance system.
• The EGCS record book had not been maintained as required by company procedures.
• The EGCS was or had been defective but there was no evidence that notifications had been made to the
relevant Authorities as required by IMO: MEPC.1/Circ.883.
• The EGCS was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
