## Question 10.2.5

**Paragraph Number:**
10.2.5

---

### **Question**
Were the officers familiar with the company procedure for testing the bilge
monitoring devices within their area of responsibility, and were records available to
demonstrate that the bilge monitoring devices and associated alarms had been tested in
accordance with the company procedure?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Forecastle, Bridge, Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.
IMO: A.1021(26) Codes on Alerts and Indicators
2009.
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the flooding detection systems fitted on board are always fully operational.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which required that bilge level monitoring
devices and their associated alarms and indicators were periodically tested.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Review vessel records and verify that the vessel had identified all bilge alarms fitted to the vessel and that
the periodic checks required by the company procedure had been completed as required.
• During the physical inspection request, that one bilge alarm is tested and verify that:
o The alarm was activated in the required locations.
o The delay in alarm activation, if any, was in alignment with the alarm design criteria.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure that required all bilge level monitoring devices and water level detectors and their
associated alarms and indicators were identified and periodically tested.
• The vessel records to demonstrate that each bilge level monitoring device, its activation delay and its
associated alarm had been tested in accordance with company procedures.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which required that all bilge level monitoring devices and water level
detectors were periodically tested.
• The accompanying deck or engineer officer was not familiar with company procedure for the testing of the
bilge level monitoring devices and water level detectors within their area of responsibility.
• There were no records available to demonstrate that the periodic testing of all bilge level monitoring devices
and water level detectors and their associated alarms, including any activation delay, had been completed in
accordance with company procedures.
• A bilge level monitoring device and / or water level detector and/or its associated alarm was defective in any
respect.
• There was evidence that bilge level monitoring devices or water level detectors and/or their associated
alarms and indicators had been modified or prevented from activating as designed.
• One or more of the following spaces was not protected by a bilge level monitor or water level detector:
o Cargo pumproom,
o Ballast pumproom,
o Main machinery space,
o Bow thruster space.
o For OBO carriers only, in ballast tanks forward of the collision bulkhead.
o For OBO carriers only, in any dry or void space other than a chain locker forward of the foremost
cargo hold.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
