## Question 10.2.4

**Paragraph Number:**
10.2.4

---

### **Question**
Were seawater pipelines, sea chests and seawater pumps in satisfactory
condition and free of temporary repairs?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure there are no weak points in seawater systems that might lead to failure and machinery space
flooding.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• During the tour of the machinery spaces, inspect seawater pipelines, sea chests, storm valves, hull
penetrations and seawater pumps.
• If necessary, review machinery space pipeline drawings and specifications.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Machinery space pipeline drawings and specifications.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• A seawater pipeline, sea chest, storm valve, hull penetration or seawater pump was corroded with pitting or
hard rust/scale (give details and location).
• A seawater pipeline, sea chest, storm valve, hull penetration or seawater pump was leaking (give details and
location).
• Fixed expansion joints (bellows) in a seawater pipeline were deformed.
• A pipeline was worn/thinned in way of a clip or support.
• A series of pipe clips and/or supports in a single pipe length were heavily corroded or missing.
• There was a temporary repair on a seawater pipeline e.g. a clamp or bandage (give details and location).
• There was an unacceptable ‘permanent’ repair on a seawater pipeline e.g. a doubler plate or coupling (give
details and location).
• Pipe clips or supports had not been replaced after a pipeline repair.
• There was no evidence of class approval for a completed repair to a seawater pipeline.
• Flexible hose(s) had been rigged as a replacement for a failed metal pipe.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
