## Question 10.2.1

**Paragraph Number:**
10.2.1

---

### **Question**
Were the officers familiar with the starting procedure for the emergency generator
and were records available to demonstrate that the emergency generator had been tested
according to company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Exterior Decks
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
UK MSA: MGN 52. Testing of Emergency Sources of Electrical Power

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the emergency generator will supply alternative power when needed.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the emergency generator.
• Sight and review the starting instructions posted adjacent to the equipment.
• Inspect the general condition of the emergency generator, the emergency switchboard and the emergency
generator space.
• Verify that electrical insulation matting was in place in front of and behind the emergency switchboard.
• Verify that the emergency generator was set to start and supply power to the emergency switchboard
automatically in the event of power interruption.
• Provided it is safe to do so, witness the starting of the emergency generator by primary and secondary
methods.
• Verify that the voltage and frequency displayed on the emergency switchboard when the emergency
generator was running were appropriate.
• Sight the level in the emergency generator fuel tank.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Where the vessel was operating in sub-zero temperatures verify that the fuel in the tank was designed for
use in sub-zero temperatures.
• Witness a test of the quick closing valve for the emergency generator where permitted.
• Witness the operation of the emergency generator space fire-flaps.
• Where necessary, check maintenance records for the emergency generator verify that:
o The emergency generator had been routinely run on load for sufficient time to ensure that normal
running temperatures and pressures had been achieved.
o Emergency consumers had been put on load to verify their connection to the emergency
switchboard and continued satisfactory performance.
o The quick closing fuel valve had been tested in accordance with company procedures
o The spare starter motor had been tested in accordance with company procedures
• Interview a deck officer, if present, to verify their familiarity with emergency generator starting and operating
procedures.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation and testing of the emergency generator.
• The ship specific procedure for starting the emergency generator and connecting it to the emergency
switchboard.
• Onboard records for the testing of the emergency generator, fuel quick closing valve and spare starter
motor, where provided.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for operating, testing and maintaining the emergency generator.
• The emergency generator was not set up to start and supply power to the emergency switchboard
automatically in the event of a power interruption.
• Ship specific starting instructions were not posted adjacent to the equipment.
• Posted starting instructions were unclear or inadequate.
• Officers were not familiar with the ship specific starting procedure for the emergency generator and
connecting it to the emergency switchboard.
• The emergency generator would not start within three attempts by either the primary or secondary means.
• The voltage or frequency delivered by the emergency generator to the emergency switchboard was outside
acceptable limits.
• The emergency generator or emergency switchboard was defective in any respect.
• There was no spare starter motor, where required.
• There was no evidence that the spare starter motor had been tested in accordance with company
procedures.
• Engineer officers were not familiar with the operating and testing procedures for the emergency generator or
quick closing valve.
• Records for testing the emergency generator or fuel quick closing valve were not available or incomplete.
• The emergency generator had not been run onload in accordance with the company procedure.
• Electrical consumers connected to the emergency switch board had not been put onload to verify their
continued satisfactory performance in accordance with company procedures.
• There was not enough fuel in the tank to run for 18 hours or the required level had not been established and
marked on the fuel level gauge.
• The vessel was or had been trading in sub-zero temperatures but the fuel in the tank was not designed for
use in sub-zero temperatures.
• The fuel quick closing valve did not operate correctly.
• The fuel quick closing valve was closed at the time of inspection.
• The fuel quick closing valve was not readily accessible in an emergency.
• The fire-flaps serving the space did not operate correctly.
• Electrical insulation mats had not been positioned in front and behind the emergency switchboard.
• The emergency generator exhaust piping was wasted or in poor condition.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
