## Question 10.3.1

**Paragraph Number:**
10.3.1

---

### **Question**
Was suitable deck insulation provided to the front and rear of electrical
switchboards, and was it in good order?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room, Engine Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 46.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that people are protected from injury when working on or around switchboards.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• During the course of the inspection of the machinery spaces, verify that:
o Switchboards were provided with the required deck insulation of an appropriate safe working
voltage.
o Insulating matting or composite deck material was complete and undamaged.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Certification, marking or other documentary evidence of the safe working voltage rating for the deck
insulation in use.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• Switchboards were not provided with deck insulation to the front and/or rear.
• The deck insulation matting or composite insulating deck covering was incomplete or damaged.
• The deck insulation matting or composite insulating deck covering provided was not suitable for the specific
voltage of the switchboard.
• There was no certification, marking or other documentary evidence of the rating of the deck insulation
provided.
If the insulation matting presented a trip hazard this should be recorded as an observation under question 5.8.2
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
