## Question 10.3.3

**Paragraph Number:**
10.3.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Chief Engineer and engineer officers familiar with the company
procedures for safe entry into the machinery space(s) during UMS operation, including
the operation and testing of the dead man alarm, if fitted?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Engineer Officer, Bridge, Engine Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: A.1021(26) Codes on Alerts and Indicators
2009.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure safe entry into the machinery space(s) during UMS operation.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for safe entry into the machinery space(s)
during UMS operation.
• Review the records of testing of the dead man alarm (where fitted).
• Review the Bridge and Engine Room Log Books to ascertain the status of machinery space operation and
records of entry during recent unattended periods.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• During the inspection of the machinery space, interview an engineer officer to verify their familiarity with the
company procedures for safe entry into the machinery space(s) during UMS operation.
• During the inspection of the bridge, interview a navigation officer to verify their familiarity with the company
procedures for safe entry into the machinery space(s) during UMS operation.
• Where possible and safe to do so, request that the accompanying officer manually start the dead man
alarm, if fitted, and note the time taken to activate the alarm.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for safe entry into the machinery space(s) during UMS operation.
• Records of testing of the dead man alarm (where fitted).
• Engine Room Log Book.
• Bridge Log Book.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for safe entry into the machinery space(s) during UMS operation
requiring that:
o During unattended periods, no-one enters the machinery spaces alone, for example to carry out
final evening checks, without first informing the bridge.
o During unattended periods, contact should be maintained with the bridge at frequent predetermined
periods during any entry, unless a dead man alarm is fitted.
o A rating should not be assigned any duty which involved them attending the engine room alone
during unattended periods.
o Where a single engineer maintains a watch, contact is maintained with the bridge or cargo control
room at frequent predetermined periods, unless a dead man alarm system is fitted.
o The dead man alarm, if fitted, is regularly tested and the results recorded.
• An engineer officer was not familiar with the company procedures for safe entry into the machinery space(s)
during UMS operation.
• A navigation officer was not familiar with the company procedures for safe entry into the machinery space(s)
during UMS operation.
• Safe entry requirements were not clearly posted at the normally accessible entrance to the machinery space
including the requirements to use the dead man alarm (where fitted) during rounds in the machinery space.
• There was no evidence that the dead man alarm, if fitted, had been regularly tested as required by company
procedures.
• The dead man alarm activation period was observed to be greater than that specified by the company
procedures and/or greater than 30 minutes.
• The dead man alarm, if fitted, was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
