## Question 10.3.4

**Paragraph Number:**
10.3.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Chief Engineer and engineer officers familiar with the operation of the
engineers’ alarm, and was the alarm in good order, tested regularly and the results
recorded?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Engineer Officer, Engine Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: A.1021(26) Codes on Alerts and Indicators
2009.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the engineers’ alarm is in good order and regularly tested.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and if necessary review, the company procedures for the operation and testing of the engineers’
alarm.
• Review the records of regular testing of the engineers’ alarm.
• Interview an engineer officer to verify their familiarity with the operation and testing of the engineers’ alarm,
and request they identify the locations of the alarm activation points within the machinery space.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the operation and testing of the engineers’ alarm.
• Records of regular testing of the engineers’ alarm.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation and testing of the engineers’ alarm that included:
o A description of its operation.
o Requirements for regularly testing the alarm and recording the results.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation and testing of the
engineers’ alarm.
• The accompanying officer could not identify the locations of the engineers’ alarm activation points within the
machinery spaces.
• There were no records of the regular testing of the engineers’ alarm.
• Records indicated the engineers’ alarm had not been tested as required by company procedures.
• The engineers’ alarm was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
