## Question 10.3.6

**Paragraph Number:**
10.3.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
operation, inspection and regular testing of watertight doors, and were the watertight
doors in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Engine Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure watertight doors are regularly tested and ready to operate in an emergency.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and if necessary, review the company procedures for the operation, inspection and regular testing of
watertight doors.
• Review records of the inspection and testing of watertight doors.
• During the tour of the bridge inspect the indication and control panel for the watertight doors.
• During the course of the inspection inspect the watertight doors and request the accompanying officer to
demonstrate remote and/or local operation of a sliding watertight door.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the operation,
inspection and regular testing of watertight door.
• Interview a rating and request that they describe or demonstrate the local operation of a watertight door.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the operation, inspection and regular testing of watertight doors.
• Records of the inspection and testing of watertight doors.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection and regular testing of watertight doors.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation, inspection and
regular testing of watertight doors.
• An interviewed rating was unable to describe or demonstrate the local operation of a watertight door.
• The rubber gasket on a sliding watertight door was damaged, in poor condition or missing.
• There was hydraulic oil leakage from the operating mechanism of a sliding watertight door.
• A sliding watertight door could not be closed from the bridge.
• The local audible alarm and/or light for a sliding watertight door was inoperative when the door was remotely
closed from the bridge.
• The watertight doors open/closed indication on the bridge was not fully operative.
• A sliding watertight door could not be operated using the manual and/or emergency operation adjacent to
the door.
• There were no instructions for use, local control, remote control and emergency operation, clearly posted
adjacent to a sliding watertight door.
• The remotely operated sliding watertight doors had been left in the emergency “doors closed” mode on the
bridge.
• A door or hatch cover that was required to be normally closed at sea was not clearly marked to that effect.
• A door or hatch cover that was required to be normally closed at sea was indicated as closed on the bridge
but was in fact open, or vice-versa.
• Watertight doors had not been tested at least at every fire drill.
• A watertight door was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
