## Question 10.3.7

**Paragraph Number:**
10.3.7

---

### **Question**
Was gas welding and cutting equipment in good order, and spare oxygen and
acetylene cylinders stored apart in a well-ventilated location outside of the
accommodation and engine room?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Exterior Decks
Publications
UK HSE: Safety in gas welding
cutting and similar processes
IMO: ISM Code
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 46.
BCGA: Code of Practice 7. The safe use of oxy-fuel gas equipment (individual portable or mobile cylinder supply)
BCGA: Technical Information Sheet 29. Oxy-Fuel Gas Equipment – Selection and Assembly

---

### **Objective**
To ensure gas welding and cutting equipment is properly installed and in satisfactory condition.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Inspect the gas cutting and welding equipment including:
o Cylinder storage location.
o Distribution piping and manifolds.
o In use and spare cylinders.
o Regulators and flashback arrestors.
o Oxygen and acetylene hoses.
o Torches/blowpipes and non-return valves.
o Associated PPE.
• Review the records of periodic inspection and replacement of flashback arrestors and regulators in the gas
cutting and welding equipment.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Records of periodic inspection and replacement of flashback arrestors and regulators in the gas cutting and
welding equipment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• Gas cylinders were not properly secured in their location.
• Gas cylinders were not secured such that they could be easily released in the case of fire.
• Protective caps were not screwed in place on cylinders not in use or being moved.
• The valve on an empty cylinder was open.
• A supply valve on a gas cylinder had been left open after completion of work.
• Oxygen and acetylene cylinders were stored together.
• Empty cylinders were not kept separate from full ones.
• Cylinders were stored with the valve end down.
• The cylinder storage location was:
o Subject to extreme temperatures.
o Exposed to salt or other corrosive chemicals.
• The cylinder storage location was not:
o Well ventilated and outside of the accommodation and engine room.
o Away from heavy traffic areas.
o Free of sources of ignition and/or combustible material.
o Clearly marked with suitable signage, including ‘No Smoking’.
• Cylinders’ valves, controls and associated fittings were contaminated with oil, grease or paint.
• A gas cylinder was in use without the correct pressure-reducing regulator.
• Spring-loaded non-return valves were not fitted adjacent to the torch in the oxygen and acetylene hoses.
• Flashback arrestors were not provided in the oxygen and acetylene hoses at the low-pressure side of
regulators.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Flashback arrestors were not fitted on both the torch and the regulator for long lengths of oxygen and
acetylene hose.
• Acetylene distribution piping and pipe fittings were not of seamless steel.
• Oxygen distribution piping and pipe fittings were not of seamless steel or copper.
• There were bolted flanged joints in the fixed piping for the distribution of oxygen and/or acetylene.
• Rubber hoses were used in the oxygen and/or acetylene distribution piping.
• There was no evidence that flashback arrestors and regulators had been
o Inspected and checked annually.
o Replaced with a new or refurbished unit 5 years from the date of manufacture or as per
manufacturer’s recommendations.
• Oxygen and/or acetylene hoses were in visibly poor condition or damaged.
• Leaking oxygen and/or acetylene hoses had been repaired rather than cropped or replaced.
• Propane was in use in the gas welding and cutting system.
• The appropriate PPE was not available for gas cutting and welding operations.
• The PPE for gas cutting and welding operations was contaminated with oil, grease or other flammable
substances.
• The gas cutting and welding equipment was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
