## Question 10.3.5

**Paragraph Number:**
10.3.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Chief Engineer and engineer officers familiar with the operation of the machinery
alarm, and was the alarm in good order, tested regularly and the results recorded?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Deck Officer, Interview - Engineer Officer, Bridge, Engine Control Room
Publications
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: A.1021(26) Codes on Alerts and Indicators
2009.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the machinery alarm is in good order and regularly tested.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and if necessary, review the company procedures for the operation and testing of the machinery
alarm.
• Review the records of regular testing of the machinery alarm.
• Interview an engineer officer to verify their familiarity with the operation and testing of the machinery alarm.
• During the inspection of the bridge, interview a navigation officer to verify their familiarity with the separate
functions of the machinery alarm panel.
• Request that, if safe and permitted to do so by the terminal, the machinery alarm is tested during the
inspection.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the operation and testing of the machinery alarm.
• Records of regular testing of the machinery alarm.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation and testing of the machinery alarm that included:
o A description of its operation.
o Requirements for regularly testing the alarm and recording the results.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation and testing of the
machinery alarm.
• The accompanying engineer officer was not familiar with the separate functions of the machinery alarm
panel in the engine room.
• A navigation officer was not familiar with the separate functions of the machinery alarm panel on the bridge.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There were no records of the regular testing of the machinery alarm.
• Records indicated the machinery alarm had not been tested as required by company procedures.
• The audible alarm in the engine room was not operative.
• The visual display of the separate alarm functions in the engine room was not fully functional.
• The audible and visible alarm on the bridge was not fully functional.
• The audible and visible alarm in public rooms and in the engineers' cabins was not fully functional.
• The machinery alarm was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
