## Question 10.3.2

**Paragraph Number:**
10.3.2

---

### **Question**
Were the engineer officers familiar with the purpose and setting of the insulation
monitoring devices provided on the primary and secondary distribution systems, and
were the distribution switchboards free of significant earth faults?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room
Publications
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 46.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that any significant earth faults are promptly addressed to prevent injury to personnel from
electrical shock.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• If necessary, review the company procedure which provided guidance on the required alarm set point for the
IMDs.
• During the inspection of the machinery spaces, examine the IMDs on each primary or secondary distribution
system switchboard and note any indications:
o Below 5 megohms on 440-volt systems, and/or below 2 megohms on 220-volt systems.
o For systems with any other voltage, below the setting value identified within the company
procedure.
• Where safe to do so, request that a responsible officer:
o Demonstrates that the alarm setting point for an IMD was set in accordance with company
procedures to provide the required audible and/or visual alarm if abnormally low insulation values
were detected.
o Operate the test device of the IMD to demonstrate that it was monitoring the insulation level to
earth.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Where a switchboard(s) was only provided with an earth indication lamp(s) as the IMD, the inspector should
determine:
o Whether vessel staff can demonstrate a satisfactory understanding of the lamp display, and can
describe the criteria that triggers the need for an investigation to identify low insulation faults, and
o How the vessel staff quantify the insulation values when identifying and correcting earth faults.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which:
o Provided guidance for the setting values for the IMDs for 110v, 220v, 440v and any other voltages
used for the primary or secondary distribution systems.
o Where a vessel was only provided with earth insulation lamps as the IMD, provided guidance on
interpreting the indications for low insulation faults.
o Required that the causes of earth faults are investigated and corrected with the aim to maintain the
insulation values as close to infinity as possible.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which:
o Provided guidance for the setting values for the IMDs for 110v, 220v, 440v and any other voltages
used for the primary or secondary distribution systems.
o Where a vessel was only provided with earth insulation lamps as the IMD, provided guidance on
interpreting the indications for low insulation faults.
o Required that the causes of earth faults are investigated and corrected with the aim to maintain the
insulation values as close to infinity as possible.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedure which provided guidance for the
setting values for the IMDs for 110v, 220v, 440v and any other voltages used for the primary or secondary
distribution systems.
• Where the vessel was only provided with earth insulation lamps as the IMD, the accompanying officer was
not familiar with the company procedure which provided guidance on interpreting the indications for low
insulation faults.
• The accompanying officer was not able demonstrate the IMD alarm setting point or describe how to interpret
the earth low insulation indicator lamps.
• An IMD was inoperative or defective in any respect.
• An IMD alarm set point had been adjusted to inhibit the generation of alarms:
o When abnormally low insulation values were detected.
o When detecting insulation values lower than the guidance provided in the company procedure.
• The Insulation Monitoring Device for a 440-volt system showed an insulation resistance of less than 5
megohms (specify indication).
• The Insulation Monitoring Device for a 220-volt system showed an insulation resistance of less than 2
megohms (specify indication).
• The Insulation Monitoring Device for any primary or secondary distribution system showed an insulation
resistance value of less than that required by the company procedure (specify required value and
indication).
Where specific electrical consumers, such as electric deepwell pumps, were causing a significant earth fault during
operation, an observation should be made irrespective of whether this was considered normal by the manufacturer.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
