## Question 10.3.8

**Paragraph Number:**
10.3.8

---

### **Question**
Were engineer officers and ratings familiar with the safety precautions for the use
of electric welding equipment, were these safety precautions posted, and was the
equipment in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Interview - Engine Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that electric welding equipment is always used safely.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Inspect the electric welding equipment including the nameplate, local switching arrangement, electric
cabling, electrode holder and spare electrodes.
• Sight the safety precautions for electric welding posted in the engine room workshop or other appropriate
location.
• Interview the accompanying officer or if available, an appropriate rating e.g. a fitter, to verify their familiarity
with the safety precautions for using the electric welding equipment provided onboard.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Safety precautions for electric welding.
• Equipment nameplate or documentation confirming the output voltage of the electric welding equipment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the safety precautions for electric welding.
• An interviewed rating was not familiar with the safety precautions for electric welding.
• Safety precautions for electric welding were not posted in the engine room workshop or other appropriate
location.
• Equipment, such as welding curtains or screens, required by the safety precautions for electric welding were
missing or in unsatisfactory condition.
• The supply wiring was not adequate to carry the electrical current demand without overloading.
• There was evidence that the ship's structure had been used as the earth return.
• In the case of a welding work station, the earthing connection was not next to the work site with the cable
leading directly back to the welding machine.
• Insufficient earth return cable was provided to match the length of the welding cable.
• The insulation of flexible electrical cables was worn, damaged or spliced.
• The electric welding power source had a direct current (DC) output exceeding 70V.
• The electric welding power source had an alternating current (AC) output exceeding 25V.
• There was no local switching arrangement or other suitable means provided for rapidly cutting off current
from the electrode.
• An electrode had been left in the holder after completion of work.
• The electrode holder was not fully insulated.
• Spare electrodes were not stored in suitably dry conditions.
• The electric welding equipment was defective in any respect.
• The appropriate PPE was not available for electric welding operations.
• The PPE for electric welding operations was contaminated with oil, grease or other flammable substances.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
10.4. Planned Maintenance Systems
