## Question 10.4.2

**Paragraph Number:**
10.4.2

---

### **Question**
Did the vessel operator subscribe to a lube oil and hydraulic oil analysis program
and was a procedure in place to act on the results and trends identified by the analysis?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Chief Engineer's Office
Publications
IACS Rec. 36 Recommended procedure for the determination of contents of metals and other contaminants in stern
tube lubricating oil.
IACS: UR_Z21 Surveys of Propeller Shafts and Tube Shafts.

---

### **Objective**


---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
Review the vessel’s lubricating and hydraulic oil analysis records and verify that:
• Each oil declared as being included within the lube oil analysis program had been tested within the required
time frame.
• Where the results of oil analysis had resulted in either a “critical” (red) or “warning” (amber) alert:
o The testing company or shore-based management had provided recommendations or instructions
to rectify the condition.
o There was evidence available that the recommendations or instructions to rectify the situation
provided by the testing company or shore based management had been complied with.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The lubricating and hydraulic oil analysis programme information documenting the oils subject to analysis.
• The lubricating and hydraulic oil analysis records for the previous two cycles of analysis.
• Where analysis had resulted in a “critical” (red) or “warning” (amber) status, any follow up communications
from shore-based management.
• Maintenance records to demonstrate that the recommended or instructed actions had been taken to correct
any “critical” or “warning” status.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The vessel did not have a programme for the routine sampling and analysis of lubricating and hydraulic oils.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for managing the lubricating and
hydraulic oil analysis programme.
• One or more oils required to be sampled and analysed had not been landed for analysis in alignment with
the programme, unless the analysis due date was during the previous voyage or there was objective
evidence of vessel had not been able to land the samples in previous ports / regions.
• One or more oils analysed during the previous two cycles of oil analysis had resulted in a “critical” (red)
status.
• There was no evidence that the recommended or instructed actions to correct the condition of an oil
analysed with a “critical” or “warning” status had been undertaken.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
10.5. Conventional Bunkering Management
