## Question 10.4.1

**Paragraph Number:**
10.4.1

---

### **Question**
Were the responsible vessel staff familiar with the company procedure for
managing and using the planned maintenance system, and was the system updated with
an accurate record of onboard maintenance and spare parts in accordance with the
procedure?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room, Chief Engineer's Office, Cargo Control Room
Publications
OCIMF: Safety Critical Equipment and Spare Parts Guidance. First Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IACS: A Guide to Managing Maintenance in accordance with the requirements of the ISM Code.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that vessel structure, machinery and equipment is maintained in accordance with class
requirements, manufacturer’s recommendations and company instructions.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for managing the planned maintenance system
provided onboard.
• Review the planned maintenance system filtered for overdue planned or unplanned tasks and identify tasks
that were either overdue by the original due date or by more than the company’s documented grace period
where such periods had been defined.
• Review the planned maintenance system filtered for deferred planned or unplanned tasks and verify that any
such tasks had been deferred in accordance with company procedures and with documented management
approval.
• Review the planned maintenance system filtered for equipment identified as critical, select a piece of
equipment and verify that the spare parts listed either met or exceeded the stated minimum required stock
level.
• Select one item from the listed spare parts for the critical equipment reviewed above and note the part
number, minimum stock level, reported stock level, store location and box number for later physical
verification.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Select one item of non-critical equipment and select one spare part listed as being available and note the
part number, reported stock level, store location and box number for later physical verification.
• Interview one deck officer and one junior engineer officer regarding their responsibilities for conducting and
recording planned maintenance tasks and, where the planned maintenance system was computer-based,
request that they demonstrate the records for one task assigned to them.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for managing the planned maintenance system provided onboard.
• The planned maintenance system.
• The manufacturer’s instructions for operating the planned maintenance system provided onboard. (where
the system was computer based)
• The spare parts inventory with critical equipment and spare parts identified, if not contained within the
planned maintenance system.
• The defect reporting system if not incorporated within the planned maintenance system.
Where a vessel is not provided with a computer based planned maintenance system, it is an expectation that vessel
staff will prepare records in advance to permit the required inspector actions to be undertaken quickly and efficiently.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for managing the planned maintenance system.
• The accompanying responsible officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for managing the planned
maintenance system.
• The accompanying responsible officer was unfamiliar with the operation of the planned maintenance
system.
• An interviewed deck officer or junior engineer was unfamiliar with the process of completing and recording
tasks assigned to them within the planned maintenance system
• Defects to structure, machinery or equipment were recorded in the planned maintenance system but were
not transferred to the defect reporting system, if not a combined system.
• Defects to structure, machinery or equipment were entered in the defect reporting system but the work
necessary to rectify the defect had not been entered into the planned maintenance system as an unplanned
task against the appropriate vessel component.
• Planned or unplanned maintenance tasks within the planned maintenance system were overdue, either by
the original due date or by more than the permitted grace period allowed by the company procedure, where
defined, without documented shore-based approval on a case by case basis.
• An item of equipment required for the safe operation of the vessel was not included in the planned
maintenance system.
• Tasks had been deferred within the planned maintenance system without documented shore management
approval.
• Spare parts inventories for equipment identified as critical were not marked/tagged with minimum stock
levels.
• Spare parts inventory listed in the planned maintenance system for equipment identified as critical was less
than the required minimum stock.
• Spare parts listed in the planned maintenance system for either critical or non-critical equipment were not
found in the designated store location, or the stock levels were incorrect as compared to the stock declared
in the planned maintenance system.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
