## Question 10.5.2

**Paragraph Number:**
10.5.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Chief Engineer and engineer officers familiar with the company
procedures for bunker fuel oil sampling and analysis, and were records available to
demonstrate that samples had been taken and retained or analysed in accordance with
the procedure?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room, Chief Engineer's Office
Publications
IMO: MARPOL
IMO Resolution MEPC.182(59) 2009 Guidelines for the sampling of fuel oil for determination of compliance with the
revised MARPOL Annex VI
IACS: No.151 (July 2017) Recommendation for petroleum fuel treatment systems for marine diesel engines.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that marine distillate and residual fuel oils meet the defined quality and environmental standards
for use onboard in propulsion and power generating machinery.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for managing fuel oil samples, arranging fuel
oil analysis and, where necessary, the remedial actions to be taken where fuel oil quality raises a concern.
• Review recent bunkering records and verify that bunker samples had been taken and either retained or
analysed as required by company procedures.
• Review recent bunker analysis reports and verify that any advisory notes had been complied with.
• Review Oil Record Book Part 1 and verify that recent bunkering operations were accurately recorded.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for managing fuel oil samples, arranging fuel oil analysis and remedial actions to
be taken where fuel oil quality raises a concern.
• Bunker delivery notes for the previous twelve months.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Bunker analysis reports for the previous twelve months.
• Oil Record Book Part 1 covering all fuel oil bunkering operations for the previous six months and the last
bunkering if more than six months previously.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for managing fuel oil samples, arranging fuel oil analysis and the
remedial actions to be taken where fuel oil quality raised a concern.
• The accompanying engineer officer was not familiar with the company procedures for fuel oil sampling,
sample retention or fuel oil analysis.
• Bunker delivery notes were not available for each delivery of marine distillate and residual fuel oil.
• Bunker samples had not been retained for each delivery of marine distillate and residual fuel oil.
• There was no company requirement to arrange for fuel oil analysis on every occasion marine residual fuel oil
was loaded for consumption onboard.
• There was no guidance regarding the required frequency of marine distillate fuel oil analysis.
• Fuel oil analysis had not been performed in accordance with company procedure and/or the instructions
from the fuel oil analysis contractor.
• Fuel oil samples had not been retained in accordance with company procedures or as required by MARPOL
annex VI.
• There was no evidence that advisory notes contained within bunker analysis reports had been complied
with.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
