## Question 10.5.3

**Paragraph Number:**
10.5.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Chief Engineer and senior engineer officers familiar with the company
and vessel specific fuel changeover procedures, and were records available to
demonstrate that fuel grade changeovers had been completed in compliance with the
procedures and MARPOL regulations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room, Chief Engineer's Office
Publications
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.
IMO: MARPOL
Joint

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that fuel grade changeovers are conducted in accordance with regulations while maintaining the
safe and continuous availability of propulsion and electrical power.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures describing the changeover of fuel grades
onboard.
• Review fuel change over records for a recent voyage where fuel grades had been changed and verify that
the change had been completed in accordance with the company procedures.
• Review the location of the vessel during the changeover process and verify that it was completed in
accordance with any geographic or situational safety restrictions put in place by the company.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures describing the changeover of fuel grades onboard .
• The vessel specific procedures for changing of fuel grades for main engines, generators and boilers.
• Onboard records demonstrating that fuel changes had been completed in accordance with MARPOL Annex
VI regulations, company procedures and vessel specific instructions, including:
o Engine Room Log Book
o Any other Log Book used to record fuel changeovers as required by MARPOL Annex VI,
Regulation 14.6 (which may be an electronic log book).

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure describing the changeover of fuel grades onboard.
• There were no ship specific fuel grade changeover procedures.
• The accompanying engineer officer was unfamiliar with the company procedures describing the changeover
of fuel grades onboard .
• The accompanying engineer officer was unfamiliar with the vessel specific fuel grade changeover
procedures.
• Records for changing of fuel grades were either missing or inaccurate.
• Entries had not been made in the appropriate Log Book to record the volume of low sulphur fuel oils in each
tank as well as the date, time and position of the ship on:
o The completion of the fuel changeover process prior to entering an ECA.
o The start of the fuel changeover process when departing an ECA.
• The vessel had conducted a fuel changeover in contravention of any geographical or situational safety
restrictions contained within the company procedures.
• The vessel had been operating at any stage of the voyage in contravention of MARPOL Annex VI
regulations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
10.6. LNG Bunkering Management
