## Question 10.5.1

**Paragraph Number:**
10.5.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, Chief Engineer, officers, and ratings involved in bunkering
operations, familiar with the company bunkering procedures, and were records available
to demonstrate that bunker operations had been planned and conducted in accordance
with the company procedure?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room, Chief Engineer's Office, Engine Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that bunkering operations are planned and conducted in accordance with Industry best practice
guidance.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for bunkering operations.
• Review a recent bunker transfer plan and verify that it:
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Identified the personnel involved in the bunkering operation and their designated duties.
o Ensured that personnel involved in the bunkering operation were not assigned conflicting tasks
during the bunkering.
o Contained all information required by the company procedures.
o Identified checks for flammable and toxic gas vapours within bunker tank ullage spaces that were
required to be taken before, during and after bunkering.
o Was signed for understanding by all officers involved in the bunkering operation.
o Was signed by both the Master and Chief Engineer for approval.
• Review the records of the same bunker operation and verify that:
o Checklists were completed before, during and after the bunkering operation to ensure that all
required safety and environmental protection measures were completed.
o The bunker transfer followed the plan as presented.
o The atmosphere of ullage spaces within the bunker tanks were tested in according with the plan.
o Records were sufficiently detailed to identify which tanks were being loaded at any given time.
• Where the vessel was involved in a bunkering operation during the inspection or had been involved in a
bunkering operation during the previous two months, interview one engine room rating to gauge their
familiarity with the bunkering plan and their role in the bunkering operation.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for developing bunker transfer plans.
• The company procedure for bunker operation record keeping.
• The plans for recent bunker transfer operations.
• The records for recent bunker transfer operations.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure that required bunker transfer plans to be prepared with defined content in
alignment with ISGOTT Chapter 24 and TMSA KPI 6.2.5.
• There were no supporting checklists for pre-arrival, checks after mooring, pre-transfer conference, pre-
bunkering, repetitive checks or post-bunkering.
• There was no company procedure which defined the record-keeping requirements for bunkering operations.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedures for bunker transfer planning.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company requirement for maintaining records of
bunkering operations.
• Where interviewed, an engine room rating was unfamiliar with the duties assigned to them within the
bunkering plan during a recent bunkering operation.
• Bunker tank ullage space atmosphere checks for flammable or toxic vapours required to be taken before,
during or after the bunkering operation had not been taken and recorded in accordance with the company
procedure.
• The reviewed bunkering plan was missing key information required by the company procedure.
• The bunkering plan did not identify the personnel, and their assigned roles, required to be involved in the
bunkering operation.
• The reviewed bunkering plan was not signed by all officers involved and/or was not approved by the Master
and Chief Engineer.
• The reviewed bunker transfer records indicated that the bunkering plan was not followed.
• The reviewed bunkering records were insufficiently detailed to permit the reconstruction of the bunkering
operation for comparison with the bunker transfer plan.
• Checklists required to be completed before, during and/or after the bunkering operation had not been
completed.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
