## Question 10.6.4

**Paragraph Number:**
10.6.4

---

### **Question**
Were the safety measures at the bunkering control station and bunkering
manifold area in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Main Deck, Aft Mooring Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGF Code
IACS: Rec 142. LNG Bunkering Guidelines (2016)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure safety measures at the bunker control station and in the bunker manifold area are in satisfactory
condition.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Inspect the bunkering manifold area.
• Inspect the bunkering control location and as far as is safe and practicable, verify the controls,
instrumentation and alarms located there are operational.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
None

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The bunkering control location was not in a safe area.
• The bunkering control location was not equipped with one or more of the following, or one or more of the
controls or instruments was not operational:
o Controls for the remote operated shutdown valve at the manifold.
o Controls for the remote operated valves in the water spray system.
o Indicators for fuel tank pressure, temperature and tank level.
o Overfill and automatic shutdown alarm.
o Audible and visual alarms for ventilation failure and gas detection in the ducting around the bunker
lines.
• CCTV of the bunkering manifold area was fitted but not operational or in use.
• At the bunkering manifold area, there was no suitable protection against cryogenic brittle fracture of the
ship’s deck or structure.
• Thermally insulated drip tray(s) were not fitted where fuel leakage may reasonably be expected, e.g., at the
manifold connection.
• The water curtain protecting the ship’s hull was not operational or was not being utilised during bunkering
operations.
• The bunkering manifold area was not visibly restricted to essential personnel only.
• There were no fire safety signs at the access points to the bunkering manifold area.
• Personnel working or on duty at the bunkering manifold area were not wearing suitable PPE.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
10.7. Fire Protection Measures
