## Question 10.6.2

**Paragraph Number:**
10.6.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Chief Engineer, and those officers and ratings, involved in LNG
bunkering operations, familiar with the functions of the vessel’s LNG (or other low-
flashpoint fuel) bunkering Emergency Shut Down (ESD) systems, and was the equipment
in good working order, regularly inspected, tested and maintained?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Manifold
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IGF Code
IACS: Rec 142. LNG Bunkering Guidelines (2016)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to an emergency while bunkering LNG (or other low-
flashpoint fuel) in accordance with the shipboard emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures that defined the operation, inspection,
maintenance and testing of the vessel’s bunkering emergency shutdown (ESD) systems.
• Sight and review any checklists used to conduct tests of the bunkering ESD systems.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, maintenance and tests carried out contained within the
planned maintenance system.
• Inspect the bunker station and the remote bunker control station, including control panels and the fuel
system schematic/piping and instrumentation diagram.
• Where the ESD system is fitted with an override function, verify that there are clear procedures to ensure
that this function can only be used under the direct authority of the Master.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation, and testing of the
bunkering ESD systems.
• Interview a rating and verify their familiarity with the location of the manual bunkering ESD controls and
circumstances in which the bunkering ESD system should be manually activated.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the vessel’s bunkering
ESD systems.
• The completed checklist used to conduct the pre-arrival tests on the bunker ESD system prior to the
previous LNG bunker transfer operation.
• Records of the inspection, maintenance and testing of the vessel’s bunkering ESD systems.
• The fuel handling manual.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The Chief Engineer and officers directly involved in bunker operations were not familiar with the vessel’s
bunkering ESD systems.
• Instrumentation and controls at the bunker control station were not fully operative.
• A fuel system schematic/piping and instrumentation diagram was not posted at the bunker station or at the
remote bunker control station.
• There was no fuel handling manual available.
• The fuel handling manual did not describe the bunkering ESD system.
• There was no record of checks and tests of the bunkering ESD systems before bunkering operations began.
• Records of inspections, maintenance and tests carried out were incomplete.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose, operation and testing of the ESD systems.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• An interviewed rating directly involved in LNG bunkering operations was not familiar with the location of the
manual control of the bunker ESD or the circumstances under which it should be activated.
• Inspection of the bunkering ESD systems indicated that actions recorded in the planned maintenance
system had not in fact taken place.
• The ESD link system was not available for use.
• Company procedures did not include a contingency plan for the circumstances where the ESD link system, if
fitted, was not available.
• The bunkering ESD system was defective in any respect.
• The bunkering ESD system had been overridden during a bunkering operation without the documented
authorisation of the Master.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
