## Question 10.6.3

**Paragraph Number:**
10.6.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Chief Engineer, and those officers and ratings involved in LNG
bunkering operations, familiar with the company LNG (or other low-flashpoint fuel)
bunkering procedures, and were records available to demonstrate that bunker operations
had been planned and conducted in accordance with the company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room, Chief Engineer's Office, Interview - Engine Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IGF Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that LNG (or other low-flashpoint fuel) bunkering operations are planned and conducted in
accordance with industry best practice guidance.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review the company procedures for bunkering operations of LNG (or other low-
flashpoint fuel).
• Sight, and where necessary review the Fuel Handling Manual required by the IGF Code.
• Review a recent bunker transfer plan and verify that it:
o Identified the personnel involved in the bunkering operation and their designated duties.
o Ensured that personnel involved in the bunkering operation were not assigned conflicting tasks
during the bunkering.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Contained all information required by the company procedure.
o Had been signed for understanding by all officers involved in the bunkering operation.
o Had been signed by both the Master and Chief Engineer for approval.
• Review the records of the same bunker operation and verify that:
o Suitable checklists had been used consistently (e.g., ISO or IAPH).
o Checklists were completed before, during and after the bunkering operation to ensure that all
required safety and environmental protection measures were completed.
o The bunker transfer followed the plan as presented.
o Records included sufficient detail, e.g., tank pressures, temperatures and transfer rates of the
transfer operation.
• Where the vessel was involved in an LNG bunkering operation during the inspection or had been involved in
an LNG bunkering operation within the previous two months, interview one officer or rating identified in the
bunkering plan as having a role or responsibility in the bunkering operation, to gauge their familiarity with the
bunker transfer plan and their role in the bunkering operation.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for bunkering operations of LNG (or other low-flashpoint fuel).
• Fuel Handling Manual required by the IGF Code.
• Plans for recent bunker transfer operations.
• Records for recent bunker transfer operations, including completed checklists.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures that included:
o The preparation of a detailed bunker transfer plan for each operation.
o Roles and responsibilities of the personnel involved in the bunkering operation.
o Description of the bunkering system, including emergency shutdown (ESD) and emergency release
systems (ERS), where fitted.
o Hazards when connecting/disconnecting hoses or hard arms.
o Pre-bunkering verification of:
 All communication methods, including ship shore link (SSL), if fitted.
 Operation of fixed gas and fire detection equipment.
 Operation of portable gas detection equipment.
 Operation of remote controlled valves.
 Inspection of hoses and couplings.
o Guidance on cooling down and if necessary, gassing up.
o Line draining method and nitrogen purging sequence/arrangements.
o Method for tank pressure control and boil-off gas (BOG) return if provided.
o Protection arrangement for the ship’s side against possible leaks.
o Maximum tank filling limits, transfer rates and topping off rates.
o Manning for deck and control room operations.
o Actions to be taken in an emergency.
o Records to be kept.
• Suitable LNG (or other low-flashpoint fuel) bunker safety checklists (e.g., ISO or IAPH) were not available.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedures for bunkering operations of LNG (or
other low-flashpoint fuel).
• There was no suitably detailed Fuel Handling Manual available.
• When interviewed, a person identified as having a role or responsibility in a bunkering operation was
unfamiliar with the duties assigned to them within the bunker transfer plan.
• The reviewed bunker transfer plan did not contain key information required by the company procedure.
• The bunker transfer plan did not identify the personnel, and their assigned roles, required to be involved in
the bunkering operation.
• The reviewed bunker transfer plan was not signed by all officers involved and/or was not approved by the
Master and Chief Engineer.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The reviewed bunker transfer records indicated that the bunker transfer plan was not followed.
• The reviewed bunkering records were insufficiently detailed to permit the reconstruction of the bunkering
operation for comparison with the bunker transfer plan.
• Checklists required to be completed before, during and/or after the bunkering operation had not been
completed.
• Mixed checklists (ISO/IAPH) had been completed at different stages of the operation.
• Bunker transfer plans did not include calculations of temperature, volume and vapour pressure of the LNG
(or other low-flash point fuel) to be transferred and/or the tank to be loaded.
• The bunkering safety checklist had not been signed by both PICs.
• The bunker transfer plan did not identify conditions under which bunkering should be stopped, and the
conditions to be met before the bunkering operation could be restarted.
• A pre-bunkering verification, prior to conducting bunkering operations, had not been carried out and
documented in the bunker safety checklist.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
