## Question 10.7.1

**Paragraph Number:**
10.7.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose, testing and
operation of the vessel’s remote controls for fuel and lube oil valves, emergency fuel and
lube oil pump shut-offs and oil tank quick closing valves, and were the systems in good
working order?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Engine Control Room, Emergency Headquarters.
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review the company procedures for the inspection, testing and maintenance of
the remote controls for fuel and lube oil valves and emergency fuel and lube oil pump shut-offs and oil tank
quick closing valves.
• Inspect the remote controls for fuel and lube oil valves and emergency fuel and lube oil pump shut-offs as
shown on the vessel’s fire control plan and ensure they are:
o In good order.
o Not obstructed.
o Clearly marked and identified with the equipment they control.
• Inspect the oil tank quick closing valves and ensure they are:
o In good order.
o Properly armed.
o Not secured open by external means.
• Where necessary review the inspection, testing and maintenance records for:
o The fuel and lube oil quick closing valves including their remote-control systems.
o The emergency fuel and lube oil pump shut-off.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the location, purpose and operation of the
remote controls for fuel and lube oil valves and emergency fuel and lube oil pump shut-offs, and oil tank
quick closing valves.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the inspection, testing and maintenance of the remote controls for fuel and
lube oil valves and emergency fuel and lube oil pump shut-offs and oil tank quick closing valves.
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the remote controls for fuel and lube oil
valves and emergency fuel and lube oil pump shut-offs and oil tank quick closing valves.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for the inspection, testing and maintenance of the remote controls for fuel
and lube oil valves and emergency fuel and lube oil pump shut-offs and oil tank quick closing valves.
• The remote controls for fuel and lube oil valves and emergency fuel and lube oil pump shut-offs were not
clearly marked and identified.
• The access to remote controls for fuel and lube oil valves and emergency fuel and lube oil pump shut-offs
was obstructed.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Quick closing valve(s) were not properly armed.
• Quick closing valve(s) were secured open by external means.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with:
o The purpose, location and operation of the remote controls for fuel and lube oil valves and
emergency fuel and lube oil pump shut-offs.
o The purpose, location and operation of the oil tank quick closing valves.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include the remote controls for fuel and lube oil valves and emergency fuel and lube oil pump shut-offs,
and quick closing valves or all the required inspections, tests and maintenance.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances available.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the remote controls for fuel and lube oil valves and emergency fuel and lube oil pump shut-offs,
and quick closing valves indicated that actions recorded in the plan had not in fact taken place.
• The remote controls for fuel and lube oil valves and emergency fuel and lube oil pump shut-offs, or quick
closing valves were defective in any way.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
