## Question 10.7.3

**Paragraph Number:**
10.7.3

---

### **Question**
Were the main engine crankcase oil mist detectors, engine bearing temperature
monitors or equivalent devices and associated alarms in good order?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IACS Unified Requirements M67 Type Testing Procedure for Crankcase Oil Mist Detection and Alarm Equipment

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the monitoring arrangements to warn of potential crankcase explosion are always effective.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary, review the company procedures for the operation and maintenance of the
crankcase oil mist detectors, engine bearing temperature monitors or equivalent devices.
• Where necessary, review the records for the testing and servicing of the crankcase oil mist detectors, engine
bearing temperature monitors or equivalent devices.
• Where possible, verify that the alarm for oil mist concentration in air is set at a maximum level corresponding
to not more than 5% of the LEL or approximately 2.5mg/l.
• If safe to do so, request that the accompanying officer tests the alarm for the oil mist detector or equivalent
device in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the operation of the crankcase oil mist detectors or engine bearing temperature
monitors or equivalent devices.
• Manufacturer’s instructions for the operation and maintenance of the oil mist detectors, engine bearing
temperature monitors or equivalent devices.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Records for the testing and servicing of the oil mist detectors, engine bearing temperature monitors or
equivalent devices.
• Where oil mist detector(s) were fitted, evidence that the sensors had been calibrated in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions and at the recommended frequency.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for the crankcase oil mist detectors, engine bearing temperature monitors
or equivalent devices which described:
o Alarm set points.
o Actions to be taken in the event of an alarm.
o Testing procedures and frequency.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the action to be taken in the event of an alarm from the
crankcase oil mist detector, engine bearing temperature monitor or equivalent device.
• The accompanying officer was unable to demonstrate a test of the oil mist detector or equivalent device
alarm.
• The testing and servicing of the oil mist detectors, engine bearing temperature monitors or equivalent
devices had not been completed in accordance with company procedures.
• The calibration of the oil mist detector sensors had not been completed in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions and/or at the recommended frequency.
• The alarm for the oil mist detector, engine bearing temperature monitor or equivalent device was
inoperative.
• The alarm set point for the oil mist detector was set above 5% of the LEL or approximately 2.5mg/l.
• The oil mist detector, engine bearing temperature monitor or equivalent device was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
