## Question 10.7.2

**Paragraph Number:**
10.7.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the measures to prevent fire in the
machinery spaces caused by flammable liquid spraying onto a hot surface and, were the
protective measures provided regularly inspected and properly maintained?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room
Publications
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.1/Circ. 1321 Guidelines for measures to prevent fires in engine-rooms and cargo pump-rooms.
IMO: ISM Code
IACS: Recommendation No.18. Fire Prevention in Machinery Spaces of Ships in Service – Guidance to Owners.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure fire prevention measures relating to hot surfaces and flammable liquids in the machinery space
are understood and properly maintained.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures that set out the actions to be taken to ensure
the integrity of the measures in place to prevent fires in the machinery spaces caused by a flammable liquid
spraying onto a hot surface.
• Where necessary review the records of periodic inspections of the fire prevention measures in the
machinery spaces including associated checklists.
• During the inspection of the machinery spaces, check that:
o There was no evidence of leakage from the fuel or lube oil piping systems within the machinery
space.
o The outer protective skin of fuel oil pump discharge lines were free from damage or deterioration.
o Flexible fuel hoses were free from damage or deterioration.
o Any drainage arrangement for jacketed fuel lines which may have been disconnected for
maintenance purposes had been refitted on completion of the task.
o Spray shields were fitted around flanged joints, flanged bonnets and any other threaded
connections in fuel oil piping systems under high pressure which were located above or near units
of high temperature and that these were in good order.
o The insulation covering high temperature or hot surfaces, such as steam pipelines and exhaust
manifolds was adequate and had been properly reinstalled or replaced after maintenance or repair
of machinery and their associated systems.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their understanding of:
o Which protective measures were required to be fitted, and to which systems, to provide effective
fire protection in the machinery spaces.
o How and when the checks of the protective measures were required to be conducted.
• Request the accompanying officer to demonstrate the correct functioning of one dedicated engine fuel oil
system leakage alarm.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures that set out the actions to be taken to ensure the integrity of measures in place to
prevent fires in the machinery spaces caused by a flammable liquid spraying onto a hot surface.
• The records of periodic inspections of the fire prevention measures relating to hot surfaces and flammable
liquids in the machinery spaces.
• The ship-specific checklist to facilitate the inspection of the fire prevention measures, which included the
measures relating to hot surfaces and flammable liquids, in the machinery spaces.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure that set out the actions to be taken to ensure the integrity of the
measures in place to prevent fires in the machinery spaces caused by a flammable liquid spraying onto a
hot surface.
• The records of periodic inspections verifying that fire prevention measures in the machinery spaces relating
to hot surfaces and flammable liquids were missing or incomplete.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There was no ship-specific checklist to facilitate the inspection of the fire prevention measures, which
included the measures relating to hot surfaces and flammable liquids in the machinery spaces.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedures that set out the actions to take to
ensure the integrity of the measures in place to prevent fires in the machinery spaces caused by a
flammable liquid spraying onto a hot surface.
• The accompanying office was unfamiliar with the fire prevention measures required to be fitted in the
machinery spaces.
• There was ongoing leakage from the fuel or lube oil piping systems within the machinery space.
• The outer protective skin of a fuel pump discharge line was visibly damaged or in poor condition.
• A flexible fuel hose was visibly damaged or in poor condition.
• The drainage arrangement for jacketed fuel lines was found to be disconnected.
• The accompanying officer was unable to demonstrate the correct functioning of a dedicated engine fuel oil
system leakage alarm.
• A dedicated engine fuel oil system leakage alarm was not functioning correctly.
• A spray shield was missing or was in poor condition around a flanged joint, ï¬‚anged bonnet or any other
threaded connection in fuel oil piping systems under high pressure which were located above or near units
of high temperature.
• Main or auxiliary engine indicator cocks were not capped with their insulated covers fitted while the engine
was running.
• Insulation covering high temperature or hot surfaces, such as steam pipelines and exhaust manifolds was
missing or improperly installed.
• Insulation covering high temperature or hot surfaces, such as steam pipelines and exhaust manifolds was
damaged or soaked in oil.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
