## Question 10.7.4

**Paragraph Number:**
10.7.4

---

### **Question**
Where hydraulic power packs were located within the main engine compartment,
were fire protection measures provided, and if so, where they in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ. 1321 Guidelines for measures to prevent fires in engine-rooms and cargo pump-rooms.
OCIMF: Safety Critical Equipment and Spare Parts Guidance. First Edition.
ISO 16437:2012 Ships and marine technology - Lifesaving and fire protection — Atmospheric oil mist detectors for
ships

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the machinery space is protected from a fire or explosion resulting from a hydraulic oil mist
caused by high pressure leakage.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• During the tour of the main machinery space, inspect the hydraulic power packs and their location and:
o If fitted in the main machinery space, determine whether:
 An oil mist detector is fitted, or
 The design encapsulated the pumps and high pressure piping and provided warning of
leakage by means of a level alarm or other means.
o If fitted in a specially dedicated space, verify that:
 Doors were closed.
 Any wire runs, kick-pipes, or other passes through a bulkhead to the space were sealed.
 The separate ventilations system was in operation.
• If fitted, and safe to do so, request that the accompanying officer demonstrate the testing of the oil mist
detector.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• If fitted, and safe to do so, request that the accompanying officer demonstrates the testing of the level alarm
or other means of leak detection for an encapsulated power pack system.
• If fitted, review the records of regular testing of the oil mist detector and/or level alarm.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• If fitted, records of regular testing of the oil mist detector.
• If fitted, records of regular testing of the level alarm or other means of leak detection.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• Hydraulic power packs of more than 50 kW with a working pressure more than 100 bar were not installed in
specially dedicated spaces with a separate ventilation system.
• The hydraulic power packs were located within the main machinery space, not in a specially dedicated
space, but there was either:
o No oil mist detector fitted, or
o No encapsulation of the pumps and high pressure piping protected by a leak detection device.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the fire protection measures associated with the hydraulic
power packs.
• If fitted, the oil mist detector had not been regularly tested in accordance with manufacturers’
recommendations.
• If fitted, the oil mist detector was defective in any respect.
• If fitted, the level alarm or other means of leak detection had not been regularly tested in accordance with
the manufacturer’s recommendations.
• If fitted, the level alarm or other means of leak detection was defective in any respect.
• Where a hydraulic power pack system was of an encapsulated design, parts of the encapsulation had been
removed or were damaged.
• Wire runs, kick-pipes, or other passes through a bulkhead to the specially dedicated space were not sealed
with a fire-retardant putty or similar material.
• A door to the specially dedicated space was left/tied open while the hydraulic power packs were in
operation.
• There were leaks from the hydraulic power packs or associated pipework.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
11. General Appearance and Condition – Photograph Comparison
11.1.1 to 11.1.36: All vessels
