## Question 11.1.1

**Paragraph Number:**
11.1.1

---

### **Question**
Was photograph no.1, bow area from dead ahead, representative of the condition
as seen onboard at the time of the inspection and, if so, was it free of any areas for
concern?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Forecastle

---

### **Objective**


---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• During the physical inspection of the vessel, review the photograph provided by the vessel operator for the
location specified and verify that it represented the condition as seen.
• In the case of more general views of the ship, the inspector should not restrict the review of the ship's
condition to exactly what is shown in the photograph but consider the photograph to represent the average
condition for all similar areas. Photographs that selectively show recently upgraded areas are not to be
considered as representative.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The appropriate photograph will be inserted in the inspection editor for review.
• Where no photograph was uploaded to the OCIMF SIRE 2.0 database the question will be automatically
entered as Not Seen in the final report

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The photograph uploaded for a specified location did not represent the actual condition of the vessel as it
existed at the time of the inspection.
• Where the photograph uploaded for a specified location was representative of the actual condition of the
vessel as it existed at the time of the inspection, but the condition of an item pictured was considered to
warrant further review by the user of the report:
o Select photo representative - item to be highlighted.
o Add additional photographs as considered necessary.
o Add a comment to identify the areas that are considered to merit further review.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
