## Question 12.1.1

**Paragraph Number:**
12.1.1

---

### **Question**
Where the vessel traded in polar waters, had the Master, Chief Mate and officers in
charge of a navigational watch undertaken the additional training required by the Polar
Code?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
IMO: Polar Code
OCIMF: Guidelines for the Development of a Polar Water Operational Manual.

---

### **Objective**


---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the vessel’s Polar Water Operational Manual (IMO Structure) section 2.1.4, Human Resources
Management, and identify the bridge manning requirements for ice operations, noting particularly where the
Master or Chief Mate may be substituted as Ice Navigator by a person other than the Master or Chief Mate.
• Review the certificates for training for Ships Operating in Polar Waters for the Master, Chief Mate and
officers in charge of the navigational watch and verify that each had the appropriate training certificate.
• Where the Master and/or Chief Mate had been substituted by a person(s) other than the Master and/or Chief
Mate for the role of ice navigator review a copy of the Certificate of Competency and certificate of advanced
training for ships operating in polar waters for the persons engaged as Ice Navigator.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s Polar Water Operational Manual.
• The training certificates for ships operating in polar waters for the Master, Chief Mate and officers in charge
of a navigational watch.
• A copy of the certificate of competency and advanced training for the person(s) who had substituted for the
Master and/or Chief Mate in the role of ice navigator.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The Polar Water Operational Manual did not define what additional training the Master, Chief Mate and
officers of the navigational watch must have to comply with the company Ice Navigator policy and the
Certificate for Ships Operating in Polar Waters.
• Where the Master and/or Chief Mate were not substituted they were not in possession of a certificate of
Advanced Training for Ships Operating in Polar Waters (unless the vessel was operating in open waters
only).
• Where the Master and/or Chief Mate were not required to have Advanced Training for Ships Operating in
Polar Waters, due to substitution or exclusively open water operations, the Master and/or Chief Mate did not
have a certificate for Basic Training for Ships Operating in Polar Waters.
• The officers in charge of a navigational watch were not in possession of a certificate for Basic Training for
Ships Operating in Polar Waters.
• The person(s) used to substitute for Master and/or Chief Mate in the role of Ice Navigator did not have the
appropriate certificate of competency and Advanced Training for Ships Operating in Polar Waters.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
12.2. Sub-zero LSA & FFA procedures
