## Question 12.2.1

**Paragraph Number:**
12.2.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures to ensure the
operability of the life-saving and fire-fighting systems and equipment in sub-zero
temperatures, and had these procedures been complied with?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Exterior Decks, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: Polar Code
OCIMF: The Use of Large Tankers in Seasonal First-Year Ice and Severe Sub-Zero Conditions

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the continuing operability of life-saving and fire-fighting equipment when operating in sub-zero
temperatures.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures to ensure that life-saving and fire-fighting
systems and equipment remain operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• Review winterisation checklists and records of periodic inspections of safety-related systems during
exposure to sub-zero temperatures.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures to ensure that life-
saving and fire-fighting systems and equipment remain operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• If applicable, during the physical inspection of the vessel confirm the precautions being taken to ensure that
life-saving and fire-fighting systems and equipment remain operable in sub-zero temperatures.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures to ensure that life-saving and fire-fighting systems and equipment remain operable in
sub-zero temperatures.
• Winterisation checklists.
• Records of periodic inspections of safety-related systems during exposure to sub-zero temperatures.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures to ensure that life-saving and fire-fighting systems and equipment
remain operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures to ensure that life-saving and fire-
fighting systems and equipment remain operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• The accompanying officer could not identify the locations of the drain points for the deck fire and/or foam
line.
• There were no winterisation checklists available for use.
• There were no measures to ensure the operability of eye wash stations and de-contamination showers
during freezing temperatures.
• Where fire and lifesaving systems were provided with insulation and/or heat tracing, either the insulation was
missing, or the heat tracing system was not fully functional.
• Periodic inspections of all safety-related systems had not been undertaken during exposure to sub-zero
temperatures to ensure the effectiveness of the precautions being taken.
• Life rafts were not rated for safe operation according to the environmental conditions likely to be
experienced.
• Existing damage to a lifeboat hull would allow water ingress which, if subjected to freezing, could cause
severe damage to the boat’s structure.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the procedure for starting an extremely cold lifeboat engine.
• The procedure for starting an extremely cold lifeboat engine was not posted in the lifeboat.
• During an inspection taking place when the vessel was prepared for sub-zero temperatures:
o The correct grade of oil to be added to the lifeboat engine cold starting pots was not available in the
lifeboat.
o The heaters in the lifeboat engines were not being used.
o The doors of an enclosed lifeboat were frozen shut.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The lifeboat engine fuel was not an appropriate grade of diesel or gas oil.
o The recirculating lifeboat engine cooling system was not protected with an anti-freeze solution.
o The lifeboat spray system had not been drained.
o Precautions had not been taken to avoid the drinking water freezing.
o There was no ice removal mallet readily available in the vicinity of survival craft.
o Eye wash stations were inoperable or unavailable.
o Water or foam fire extinguishers were exposed to freezing temperatures.
o Water or foam extinguishers had been removed to prevent freezing and not replaced with suitable
extinguishers.
o Fire and/or foam lines had not been drained from their lowest point.
o Drain valves to fire and/or foam lines had not been closed after draining.
o Monitors and hydrants were not protected by canvas covers to prevent snow/ice accumulation.
o Water curtain and spray systems had not been drained.
o The temperature in a space containing bulk storage tanks for fixed foam systems and/or drums and
canisters of foam for portable branch pipe appliances was below zero.
o Any item of lifesaving or firefighting system or equipment was not operable or ready for immediate
use due to freezing, snow accumulation or ice accretion.
o Escape routes and access to fire-fighting and life-saving equipment were obstructed by snow
and/or ice accumulations
Where a lifesaving or firefighting system was provided with a working heating arrangement (e.g. insulation and either
recirculation or trace heating), an observation should not be recorded if such a system was not drained down as
would be expected if no heating system was provided.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
12.3. Sub-zero machinery operation procedures
