## Question 12.3.1

**Paragraph Number:**
12.3.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures to ensure the
operability of the engine room machinery and systems in sub-zero temperatures, and
had these procedures been complied with?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: Polar Code
OCIMF: The Use of Large Tankers in Seasonal First-Year Ice and Severe Sub-Zero Conditions
Transport Canada: Mandatory Winter Navigation Information on Sea Water Cooling Types. December 2013

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the continuing operability of the engine room machinery and systems when operating in sub-zero
temperatures.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures to ensure that engine room machinery and
systems remain operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• Review completed winterisation checklists.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures to ensure that
engine room machinery and systems remain operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• If applicable, during the physical inspection of the vessel confirm the precautions being taken to ensure that
engine room machinery and systems remain operable in sub-zero temperatures.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures to ensure that engine room machinery and systems remain operable in sub-zero
temperatures.
• Winterisation checklists.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures to ensure that engine room machinery and systems remain operable in
sub-zero temperatures.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures to ensure that engine room
machinery and systems remain operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• There were no winterisation checklists available for use.
• Company procedures to ensure that engine room machinery and systems remain operable in sub-zero
temperatures had not been complied with, which may include:
o Prior to entering an area of low temperatures, failing to check, where applicable:
 Fore and aft draughts were within the limits required by the ice class notation.
 Sea-chest strainers.
 Steam heating and/or other arrangements to keep sea-chests clear of ice.
 Heating systems in fuel, bilge and lubricating oil tanks.
 Heating systems for the emergency generator.
 Anti-freeze in the emergency generator cooling system.
 Water levels in recirculating cooling systems.
 Water content of stern tube oil.
 Suitability of oils and greases.
 Arrangements to ensure control air is dry.
 Arrangements to prevent the icing up of air pipes to settling and service tanks required for
the operation of the main propulsion plant and essential auxiliaries.
o While operating in an area of low temperatures, not:
 Operating with the engine room manned when appropriate.
 Applying steam heating on sea-chests continuously.
 Using space heaters in engine, steering gear, emergency battery rooms and emergency
fire pump space.
 Keeping emergency generator room external vent flaps and supply fan damper closed.
 Changing over from heavy fuel oil to diesel oil prior to closing down the main engine.
 Keeping hydraulic motors, including steering motors, running continuously.
 Operating pneumatic and manual vent flaps to keep them free.
 Adjusting engine room ventilation to maintain suitable temperatures and avoid local
cooling of fuel systems.
 Monitoring freshwater tanks and piping for freezing.
• Any system or equipment required to maintain the engine room machinery and equipment functional in sub-
zero temperatures was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
12.4. Sub-zero cargo and ballast operation procedures
