## Question 12.4.1

**Paragraph Number:**
12.4.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures to ensure the
operability of the cargo and ballast systems in sub-zero temperatures, and had these
procedures been complied with?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Pumproom, Compressor Room, Main Deck
Publications
OCIMF: The Use of Large Tankers in Seasonal First-Year Ice and Severe Sub-Zero Conditions
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: Polar Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the continuing operability of the cargo and ballast systems when operating in sub-zero
temperatures.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures to ensure that cargo and ballast systems
remain operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• Review completed winterisation checklists and records of equipment tests and checks prior to, during and
on completion of cargo operations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures to ensure that
cargo and ballast systems remain operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• If applicable, during the physical inspection of the vessel confirm the precautions being taken to ensure that
cargo and ballast systems remain operable in sub-zero temperatures.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures to ensure that cargo and ballast systems remain operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• Winterisation checklists.
• Records of equipment tests and checks prior to, during and on completion of cargo operations.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures to ensure that cargo and ballast systems remain operable in sub-zero
temperatures.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures to ensure that cargo and ballast
systems remain operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• There were no winterisation checklists available for use.
• Company procedures to ensure that cargo and ballast systems remain operable in sub-zero temperatures
had not been complied with, which may include failing to:
o Test the integrity of deck lines prior to use to ensure they are tight.
o Check ballast water salinity and exchange if necessary.
o Where fitted, operate ballast tank heating or bubbling systems in good time.
o Protect equipment on deck with canvas covers, including:
 Hydraulic cargo and COW valves.
 COW machines.
 P/V valves.
 Mast riser vent valve.
 IG main and inlet valves.
 Deepwell pump motors and shafts.
 Ballast tank vents.
o Check that:
 Valves on deck are well greased and their gearboxes free of water.
 Deck seal heating arrangements are operational.
 Anti-freeze levels in P/V breaker and stripping system vacuum pumps are correct.
 Cargo compressors that require antifreeze and/or a heating system are properly prepared
for cold weather.
o Drain equipment, including:
 Cargo, COW, and tank cleaning lines and valves, after testing or use.
 Tank cleaning heater.
 Heating coils.
 Manifold drip-trays.
 Deck air-line.
 Ballast system, including ballast monitor.
 Oil discharge monitoring system.
 Pumproom steam lines, if not to be used.
o Activate hydraulic cargo, COW and ballast valves frequently while in sub-freezing temperatures to
avoid freezing/blockage.
o Check P/V breaker, P/V valves and flame screens immediately before commencing and during
cargo operations.
o Start cargo pump and valve hydraulic systems in good time before they are needed.
o Ensure deck seal heating is functioning and checked regularly during cargo operations.
o Check canvas covers are removed from ballast tank vents before ballasting/deballasting.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
12.5. Sub-zero deck machinery operation procedures
