## Question 12.5.1

**Paragraph Number:**
12.5.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures to ensure the
operability of the deck machinery, including mooring systems, in sub-zero temperatures,
and had these procedures been complied with?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck, Mooring Decks
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: Polar Code
OCIMF: The Use of Large Tankers in Seasonal First-Year Ice and Severe Sub-Zero Conditions

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the continuing operability of the deck machinery when operating in sub-zero temperatures.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures to ensure that deck machinery, including
mooring systems, remains operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• Review winterisation checklists and records of periodic inspections of all deck machinery during exposure to
sub-zero temperatures.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures to ensure that
deck machinery, including mooring systems, remains operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• If applicable, during the physical inspection of the vessel confirm the precautions being taken to ensure that
deck machinery, including mooring systems remains operable in sub-zero temperatures.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures to ensure that deck machinery, including mooring systems, remains operable in sub-
zero temperatures.
• Winterisation checklists.
• Records of periodic inspections of all deck machinery during exposure to sub-zero temperatures.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures to ensure that deck machinery, including mooring systems, remains
operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures to ensure that deck machinery,
including mooring systems, remains operable in sub-zero temperatures.
• There were no winterisation checklists available for use.
• Periodic inspections of all deck machinery had not been undertaken during exposure to sub-zero
temperatures to ensure the effectiveness of the precautions being taken.
• Company procedures to ensure that deck machinery, including mooring systems, remains operable in sub-
zero temperatures had not been complied with, which may include not:
o Ensuring hydraulic systems contained a suitable grade of hydraulic oil.
o Circulating hydraulic system oil continuously when the external temperature was below 0°C to
ensure that the fluid systems were maintained at working temperatures.
o When leaving machinery (e.g., winches) running, paying careful attention to the regular lubrication
of the equipment.
o Operating and testing cargo handling cranes prior to the vessel entering sub-zero temperatures.
o Checking heating arrangements in cranes were operational.
o Adequately covering the pneumatic or electrical motors used for raising or lowering accommodation
ladders to prevent ice accretion.
o Closing the main air valve to deck and draining the airline down.
o Protecting control boxes and motion levers for deck machinery with canvas covers.
o Protecting mooring wires and synthetic ropes with canvas covers to stop ice accretion until they
were required for use.
o Prior to arrival in port, proving winches, windlasses and anchors to be operational.
o Ensuring the continued operability of pneumatic oil spill pumps, where provided.
• Inspection of the vessel during periods of sub-zero temperatures determined that deck machinery and/or
mooring systems required for planned or emergency use were inoperative due to freezing and/or ice
accretion.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
12.6. Ice navigation procedures
