## Question 12.6.1

**Paragraph Number:**
12.6.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for navigating
in areas affected by ice, and had they received suitable training?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge
Publications
OCIMF: The Use of Large Tankers in Seasonal First-Year Ice and Severe Sub-Zero Conditions
BIMCO: The Ice Navigation and Seamanship Handbook 1st Edition 2019
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the Master and officers are prepared for navigating in areas affected by ice.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for navigating in areas affected by ice.
• Review completed checklists for the last voyage affected by ice.
• Review the passage plan for the last voyage affected by ice.
• Review the Bridge Log Book for the last period navigating in an area affected by ice.
• Review records of crew training with regard to operating ships in ice.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for navigating in
areas affected by ice.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for navigating in areas affected by ice.
• Passage plan for the last voyage affected by ice.
• Completed checklists for the last voyage affected by ice.
• Bridge Log Book for the last period navigating in an area affected by ice.
• Records of crew training with regard to operating ships in ice.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for navigating in areas affected by ice that included, as appropriate,
guidance on:
o Passage planning in areas affected by ice.
o Bridge/engine room team composition in areas affected by ice.
o Pilotage in ice.
o Actions to take when ice is detected.
o Freezing spray.
o Navigation in pack ice.
o Position fixing in ice conditions.
o Charts and positions in remote locations.
o Radar use in ice conditions.
o Limitations of compasses in high latitudes.
o Shiphandling in ice.
o Anchoring in ice.
o Avoiding hull and propeller/propulsion system damage in ice.
o Berthing/unberthing in ports with ice.
o Working with icebreakers.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for navigating in areas affected by
ice.
• The company procedures for navigating in areas affected by ice were not supported by suitable checklists.
• Checklists for navigating in ice had not been completed to company requirements.
• The passage plan for the last voyage affected by ice did not take into account the additional factors
presented by navigation in areas affected by ice, such as:
o The limits of ice pack, ice bergs and sea ice.
o The verification of draughts to meet the min/max draughts required by the vessel's ice notation.
o The change in status of manoeuvring machinery.
o The change in status of bridge and/or machinery space manning levels.
• Records showed that while navigating in an area affected by ice:
o The required bridge/engine room team composition had not been complied with.
o The vessel's draught had not been adjusted to meet the min/max draught required by the vessel's
ice notation.
• There were no records of crew training with regard to operating ships in ice.
• When navigating in or near areas affected by ice, the Master, an officer in charge of a navigational watch or
an officer in charge of an engineering watch had not received suitable training for operating ships in ice.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
