## Question 2.1.1

**Paragraph Number:**
2.1.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and senior officers familiar with the company procedure for
maintaining the vessel’s statutory certification up to date, were all certificates and
documents carried onboard up to date and was the vessel free of conditions of class or
significant memoranda?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Pre-board
Publications
IACS: Information Paper. Classification societies – what
why and how?
IMO: FAL.2/Circ.131 MEPC.1/Circ.873 MSC.1/Circ.1586 LEG.2/Circ.3. LIST OF CERTIFICATES AND DOCUMENTS
REQUIRED TO BE CARRIED ON BOARD SHIPS
2017.
IMO: FAL.5/Circ.39/Rev.2 20 April 2016 GUIDELINES FOR THE USE OF ELECTRONIC CERTIFICATES

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vessel had been surveyed in accordance with all statutory requirements and that
certification is onboard to confirm compliance.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
Prior to boarding:
• Review the CSSR and identify any conditions of class and/or significant memoranda and copy the details
into the observation tool.
• Verify that the dates and data declared within the HVPQ were accurate as compared to the CSSR.
During the inspection:
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for managing the vessel’s statutory certification
and supporting documents.
• Verify that any defective structure, machinery or equipment identified through the issue of a condition of
class, memoranda or issue of a short-term certificate had been entered in the defect reporting system for
follow up and later closeout.
• Verify that the onboard system for the tracking of statutory and classification certificates was being
maintained up to date by random sampling and review of no more than five certificates.
• Verify that the outcome from any recent class surveys had been registered in the CSSR.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for managing statutory certification and supporting documents.
• Folders containing statutory and classification certificates and supporting surveys/test reports.
• Certificate index indicating the expiry date all statutory certification, supporting surveys and inspections.
• The Class Survey Status Report (CSSR)*.
• List of open defects as reported in the defect reporting system.
• Details of class attendance during the past twelve months.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which defined the process for managing (indexing and filing) vessel
certificates and documents to ensure compliance with SOLAS, Class and Flag requirements.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for indexing and filing certificates and
documents.
• There was no systematic process in place to track the validity and file all statutory and classification
certificates.
• A sampling of onboard certificates identified that a required (class or flag) certificate or a supporting
survey/test report had expired or was missing.
• The onboard tracking or filing of statutory and classification certificates had not been maintained in
accordance with company procedures.
• The operator had not uploaded a recent copy of the CSSR to the document repository and a copy had not
been made available onboard.
• The data entered in the HVPQ or PIQ was not accurate as compared to the CSSR and vessel records.
• The vessel had been issued with:
o A condition of class.
o Memoranda relating to a defect to structure, machinery or equipment.
o A short-term certificate as a result of a defect or damage to the ship's structure, machinery or
equipment.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
2.2. Management Oversight
