## Question 2.2.3

**Paragraph Number:**
2.2.3

---

### **Question**
Was the Master fully conversant with the company’s Safety Management System
and had Master’s Reviews of the system taken place in accordance with the ISM Code
and company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IACS Recommendation No.41 (Rev.5 Oct 2019) Guidance for Auditors to the ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the Master is fully conversant with the Safety Management System and that Master’s Reviews
contribute to the improvement of its effectiveness.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Interview the Master to verify their overall knowledge of, and proficiency in using, the SMS.
• Review the last two Master’s Reviews of the SMS.
• Review the company responses to the last two Master’s Reviews.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The Safety Management System.
• The last two Master’s Reviews.
• The company responses to the last two Master’s Reviews.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The Master was not familiar with the layout and contents of the SMS.
• The Master was not proficient in accessing the information contained in the SMS, whether in hard copy or
digital format.
• There was no company procedure requiring the periodic review of the Safety Management System (SMS)
by the Master, including:
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The format and agenda for the review.
o The frequency of the review (at least annual).
o A specified time frame for company responses to the review.
• The Master was not familiar with the company procedure requiring the periodic review of the Safety
Management System (SMS).
• Master’s Reviews had not been performed at the frequency required by the company procedure.
• The Master’s Review(s) had not been fully completed according to the company format and/or agenda.
• The Master’s Review did not:
o Identify deficiencies in the SMS and suitable corrective action and/or,
o Contain suggestions for improvement in the effectiveness of the SMS.
• The operator had not responded to the Master’s Review(s) within the specified timeframe.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
2.3. Structural Assessment
