## Question 2.2.2

**Paragraph Number:**
2.2.2

---

### **Question**
Were recent ISM internal audit reports available on board, had corrective action
been taken on board to close-out any non-conformities and had this corrective action
been verified by shore management?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To provide assurance that the vessel had been operated in compliance with the company Safety
Management System.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for scheduling and performing internal ISM
audits including standard audit formats and/or checklists.
• Review the latest two internal ISM audit reports under the current operator.
• Review the system for recording and tracking ISM audit non-conformities to closure.
• Interview the Master or a senior officer to confirm their familiarity with the system for recording and tracking
ISM audit non-conformities to closure.
• In the case that the vessel had recently been taken over by the vessel operator and had not yet undertaken
an internal audit, interview the Master or a senior officer to confirm their familiarity with the preparations
necessary for the first internal audit.
Inspectors must not use operator’s audit reports as a means to identify Negative Observations.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for scheduling and performing internal ISM audits.
• The latest two internal ISM audit reports under the current operator.
• The system for recording and tracking non-conformities to closure.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for scheduling and performing internal ISM audits.
• No internal ISM audit had taken place for more than:
o 15 months
o 12 months, with no documentation supporting exceptional circumstances.
• The latest two internal ISM audit reports under the current operator, where completed, were not available on
board.
• There was no system for recording and tracking any non-conformities to closure.
• Records in the system for recording and tracking any non-conformities to closure were incomplete.
• The system for recording and tracking any non-conformities to closure:
o Was not readily available to those responsible for implementing corrective action for any non-
conformities.
o Did not impose a time limit for corrective action to be taken.
o Did not record when corrective actions were completed.
o Did not record the operator’s verification of corrective action completed, or the evidence upon
which verification was based, for example, a superintendent’s visit or photographs.
• A non-conformity had not been closed-out within the imposed time limit.
• There was no objective evidence for the corrective action recorded to close-out a non-conformity.
• The Master or senior officer interviewed was not familiar with the system for recording and tracking any
internal ISM audit non-conformities to closure.
• The Master or senior officer interviewed was not familiar with the internal audit programme process.
Where the vessel operator had recently taken over management of the vessel and an internal audit had not yet taken
place, enter a comment in the Process response tool indicating when the internal audit was planned for completion.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
