## Question 2.3.2

**Paragraph Number:**
2.3.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and Chief Engineer familiar with the company procedure to
maintain the Class Survey File, and was the vessel free of any visible or documentary
evidence of concerns with the structural condition of the hull or hold space and ballast
tank coatings?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Main Deck, Pre-board, Documentation
Publications
IACS: UR Z7.2 Rev
6 Feb 2015 Hull Surveys of Liquefied Gas Carriers
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.215 (82) Performance Standard for Protective Coatings for Dedicated Seawater Ballast Tanks.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the structure of gas carriers was subject to the required surveys and complete historical
records of any damage, deterioration and subsequent repairs to the hull structure were available on board.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the Survey File and verify it has been maintained complete and up to date.
• Review the previous repair history and identify any structural repairs completed during the preceding twelve
months for comparison with the vessel’s defect reporting system.
• Review the Coating Technical File, where required to be carried, and note any spaces where coating repairs
have been recorded as having been undertaken.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• During the physical inspection of the vessel note any concerns with hull structural integrity such as cracking,
denting, distortion, significant* corrosion or thinning of structural members. (*‘Significant’ in this context is
wastage which has visibly reduced the profile of a structural member.)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Survey File.
• Coating Technical File, where required to be carried.
• Inspection reports for cargo, ballast, hold and void space inspections by ship’s personnel.
• Incident investigation reports relevant to structural damage and repair.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure to ensure the vessel’s Survey File is maintained complete and up to date.
• The Master and/or Chief Engineer were not familiar with the company procedure to ensure the vessel’s
Survey File is maintained complete and up to date.
• The Survey File was incomplete and did not include:
o Class status reports.
o Survey reports.
o Repair history.
o Coating Technical File, where required to be carried.
• Maintenance of the protective coating system was not included in the overall ship’s maintenance plan.
• Structural repairs were recorded within the Survey File as having taken place during the previous twelve
months, but the vessel’s defect reporting system did not include a similar report.
• Structural repairs were recorded as having taken place following a casualty/incident but there was no
incident investigation report available onboard.
• Physical inspection of the vessel identified concerns with hull structural integrity such as cracking, denting,
distortion, significant* corrosion or thinning of structural members which had not been subject to an
occasional class survey. (*Where there is doubt as to whether corrosion or thinning is significant, use the
Hardware - slight superficial deterioration – comment option.)
• A survey report contained details of substantially corroded tanks/areas or areas with deep pitting.
(Summarise the relevant section of the report.)
• Classification society reports recorded fair or poor ballast tank coating condition. (Report which tank(s) and
rating assigned).
• Coating repairs were reported to have taken place within ballast tanks, but the coating technical file, where
required to be carried, had not been updated accordingly.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
