## Question 2.3.3

**Paragraph Number:**
2.3.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and senior officers familiar with the company cargo, ballast & void
space inspection and reporting procedure and, were records available to demonstrate
that all inspections had been accomplished within the required time frame with reports
completed in accordance with company instructions?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Cargo Control Room
Publications
IACS Recommendation 87. Guidelines for Coating Maintenance and Repairs for Ballast Tanks.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the condition of cargo, ballast and void spaces was properly evaluated with defects to
structure, coating or fittings effectively managed.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for cargo, ballast & void space inspection and
reporting.
• Verify that the date ranges for the inspection of cargo, ballast and void spaces provided by the operator in
the pre-inspection questionnaire were accurate by spot checking inspection reports.
• Review several recent cargo, ballast or void space inspection reports and verify that the detail required by
the company inspection procedure had been recorded for each space on the dedicated inspection report
forms.
• Where defects relating to the structure, coating or fittings of a cargo, ballast or void space had been noted
within an inspection report, verify that a defect report had been generated to follow up with the required
corrective actions.
• Where conditions of class, memoranda or coating condition required more frequent inspections of cargo,
ballast and/or void spaces, confirm that required inspections had been completed and documented as
required.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The company procedures, and any referenced industry publications, for inspection of cargo, ballast and void
spaces.
• The inspection reports for all cargo, ballast and void spaces for the previous full inspection cycle.
• Open defect reports for any defects to tank structure, coatings or fittings.
• Communications with class relating to any defects to tank structure since the previous renewal or
intermediate survey.
• The enclosed space entry records and permits for recent cargo, ballast and void space inspections.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the inspection of cargo/ballast/void spaces which gave clear
guidance on the inspection frequency, the inspection process and reporting criteria.
• The required inspection frequency for ballast and void spaces exceeded twelve months.
• The required inspection frequency for cargo spaces on oil and chemical tankers exceeded thirty-six months.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company cargo/ballast/void space inspection procedure
and/or reporting criteria.
• Cargo, ballast or void space inspection(s) for any single space was overdue by more than a month
according to the company defined inspection period for the space(s) in question.
• Any cargo, ballast or void space had been omitted from the onboard inspection regime.
• The cargo, ballast and/or void space inspection reports were not prepared in a standard format which
permitted the reporting of coating and structural condition in defined areas of the space in question.
• Defects to tank structure, coating or fittings were reported in an inspection report but the defects(s) had not
been transferred to the defect reporting system for subsequent corrective action.
• There were open defect reports specifically related to damage or defects to tank structure.
• Defects to tank structure had not been reported to the vessel's Class Society for evaluation.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
