## Question 2.3.4

**Paragraph Number:**
2.3.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and deck officers familiar with the company procedures for
detecting leakage of liquids between cargo, bunker, ballast, void and cofferdam spaces
which included inspecting the surface of ballast water prior to discharge, and were
records available to show that the necessary checks had been performed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that leakage of liquids between adjacent cargo, bunker, ballast, void and cofferdam spaces or
from pipelines passing through such spaces is detected.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for checking for leakage of cargo, bunker oil,
hydraulic oil and ballast into empty spaces and, for inspecting the surface of segregated ballast water prior
to discharge.
• Review the sounding records for empty spaces and verify that soundings had been taken in accordance with
company procedure.
• Review the records for ballast water discharge and verify that the surface of the ballast in each tank adjacent
to a cargo or bunker tank or, with cargo, bunker or hydraulic lines passing through it, had been inspected for
contamination prior to discharge.
• Review the records of ballast line tests where they pass through cargo tanks or fuel tanks, if applicable.
• Inspect the ballast tank sighting arrangements and verify that each tank adjoining a cargo or bunker tank, or
with cargo, bunker or hydraulic lines passing through it, could be readily inspected without the need to
remove numerous bolts to remove the inspection hatch or, to make an enclosed space entry.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for sighting the surface of ballast water prior to discharge where the ballast tanks
were adjacent to a cargo or bunker tank or where oil pipes and/or hydraulic lines pass through the tanks.
• The company procedure to periodically sound empty tanks to detect liquid migration due to structural failure
or pipeline leakage.
• Records demonstrating that the surface of ballast water had been inspected prior to discharge.
• Records demonstrating that periodic soundings of empty spaces had been taken in accordance with
company procedures.
• Records demonstrating that the level in full and partially full tanks had been periodically verified to detect the
migration of liquid between adjacent or interconnected spaces.
• Records of ballast line tests where they pass through cargo tanks or fuel tanks.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure to periodically check empty spaces for ingress of liquids from adjoining
spaces or pipeline leakage or, to check the surface of ballast water for contamination prior to discharge.
• The accompanying deck officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for periodically checking empty
spaces for liquid ingress or monitoring the levels of full or partially full tanks for migration of liquid between
spaces.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for inspecting the surface of ballast
water prior to discharge when a ballast tank adjoined a cargo or bunker tank or had piping containing oil
passing through it.
• Records determined that periodic checks to identify the ingress of liquids into empty spaces had not been
conducted as required by the company procedures.
• Records determined that the surface of ballast water contained in tanks adjacent to cargo or bunker tanks,
or which had pipes containing oil passing through them, had not been inspected prior to discharge.
• Records determined that ballast lines had not been tested where they passed through cargo tanks or fuel
tanks.
• Inspection of the ballast tank sighting arrangements determined that numerous bolts were required to be
removed from the inspection hatch or, an enclosed space entry was needed to be made, to inspect the
surface of the ballast water within a full tank.
• Records determined that liquid leakage was detected in an empty space as a result of structural or pipeline
failure during the previous twelve months.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Records determined that ballast water or a ballast tank was contaminated by oil from an adjacent space or
pipeline leakage during the previous twelve months.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
