## Question 2.3.1

**Paragraph Number:**
2.3.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and Chief Engineer familiar with the company procedure to
maintain the Enhanced Survey File in accordance with Classification Society rules, and
was the vessel free of any visible or documentary evidence of concerns with the
structural condition of the hull or cargo and ballast tank coatings?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Pre-board, Main Deck, Documentation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.215 (82) Performance Standard for Protective Coatings for Dedicated Seawater Ballast Tanks.
IMO: ESP Code
IACS: Double Hull Tankers. Guidelines for Surveys Assessment and Repair of Hull Structures
IACS: UR Z10.4 Rev
16 May 2019 Hull Surveys of Double Hull Oil Tankers
IACS: UR Z10.3 Rev
19 May 2019 Hull Surveys of Chemical Tankers

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the structure of oil and chemical tankers was subject to enhanced survey and complete
historical records of any damage, deterioration and subsequent repairs to their hull structure were available
onboard.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the Enhanced Survey File and verify that all sections had been maintained up to date with the detail
required by the vessel’s classification society.
• Review the previous repair history and identify any structural repairs completed during the preceding twelve
months for comparison with the vessels defect reporting system.
• Review the condition evaluation report and note any spaces where the coating condition of cargo or ballast
tanks was reported as fair or poor.
• Review the condition evaluation report and note any substantially corroded tanks/areas or areas with deep
pitting recorded in the extract of thickness measurements.
• Review the coating technical file and note any spaces where coating repairs had been recorded as having
been undertaken.
• During the physical inspection of the vessel note any concerns with hull structural integrity such as cracking,
denting, distortion, significant* corrosion or thinning of structural members. (Significant* in this context is
wastage which has visibly reduced the profile of a structural member.)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The Enhanced Survey File (which must be onboard for the lifetime of the ship from at least one year prior to
the first special survey).
• The Coating Technical File, where required to be carried.
• Supporting documents required to be carried onboard according to the ESP Code.
• Inspection reports for cargo, ballast and void spaces by ships personnel.
• Incident investigation reports relevant to structural damage and repair within the scope of the enhanced hull
survey.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which required that the enhanced survey file, or electronic record, was
maintained in accordance with classification society guidance.
• There was no company procedure which required that the coating technical file was maintained in
accordance with classification society guidance.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for maintaining the enhanced survey
file, or electronic record, and the coating technical file.
• The enhanced survey file was found to be missing required surveys and/or reports.
• Inspections by ship’s staff had not been recorded.
• Structural repairs were recorded as having taken place during the previous twelve months within the
enhanced survey file, but the vessel’s defect reporting system did not include a similar report.
• Structural repairs were reported to have taken place following a casualty/incident but there was no incident
investigation report available onboard.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The condition evaluation report contained reports of substantially corroded tanks/areas or there were areas
with deep pitting recorded within the extract of thickness measurements. (summarize the extract)
• The condition evaluation report or any subsequent classification society reports recorded fair or poor cargo
and/or ballast tank coating condition. (report which tank(s) and rating assigned).
• Coating repairs were reported to have taken place within ballast tanks, but the coating technical file had not
been updated accordingly.
• Physical inspection of the vessel identified concerns with hull structural integrity such as cracking, denting,
distortion, significant* corrosion or thinning of structural members which had not been subject to an
occasional class survey. (Where there is doubt as to whether corrosion or thinning is significant* use the
Hardware - slight superficial deterioration – comment option)
• Where the vessel had completed a special survey and the condition evaluation report was not available
onboard, record a comment within the Process response tool, recording the number of days elapsed since
the survey was completed.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
