## Question 2.4.2

**Paragraph Number:**
2.4.2

---

### **Question**
Where defects existed to the vessel’s structure, machinery or equipment, had the
vessel operator notified class, flag and/or the authorities in the port of arrival, as
appropriate to the circumstances, and had short term certificates, waivers, exemptions
and/or permissions to proceed the voyage been issued where necessary?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
IMO SOLAS
IACS: Information Paper. Classification societies – what
why and how?

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that defects affecting statutory certification or class required equipment are reported to the
vessel’s Classification Society, Flag Administration and any affected stakeholders as appropriate.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the Class Status report and identify any conditions of class, memoranda or short-term certificates
that may indicate that there was a defect in the vessel’s structure, machinery or equipment.
• Review the vessel’s defect reporting system and identify any defects that would be reportable to the vessel’s
Classification Society or Flag Administration and verify that they were either reported in the class status
report or communications were available to demonstrate that class and/or flag had been advised and that no
further action was required.
• Where the vessel had a short-term certificate or Flag Administration waiver verify that the vessel had notified
external stakeholders of the vessel deficiency, where required to do so, through the pre-arrival processes
applicable to the port of arrival or transit of controlled navigational areas.
• Where the vessel’s Classification Society or Flag Administration had required that specific mitigating
measures were taken as a condition of the issuing a short-term certificate or flag waiver, verify that the
vessel had complied with the required measures.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for notifying the vessel’s Classification Society, Flag Administration and/or other
external stakeholders of defects to the vessel’s structure, machinery and equipment.
• The class status report – uploaded to the document portal.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The defect reporting system, or the planned maintenance system where systems were integrated.
• A printed list of open defect reports identifying any defects which had been reported to the vessel’s
Classification Society and/or Flag Administration.
• Communications from the shore-based management indicating the defect reports had been evaluated and
that no external reporting to the vessel’s Classification Society and/or Flag Administration was necessary or
that notifications had been made and no further reporting was required.
• Communications from the vessel’s Classification Society or Flag Administration relating to any mitigating
actions required as a condition of issuing a short-term certificate or flag waiver.
• Pre-arrival notifications required by the port of arrival to demonstrate that defects affecting the vessels
operations had been reported in accordance with local requirements.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which required that defects to vessel structure, machinery and equipment
were evaluated by shore management to determine whether notifications to Class, Flag and/or other
external stakeholders were required.
• The senior officers were not familiar with the company procedure for notifying Class, Flag and/or other
external stakeholders of defects to the vessel’s structure, machinery or equipment after shore management
evaluation.
• There were open defect reports in the defect reporting system which were of a significant nature but there
was no evidence that class, flag and/or external stakeholders had been informed in accordance with the
company procedure. In this case identify the defective equipment in the negative observation module of the
Hardware response tool.
• Class, Flag or external stakeholders had imposed conditions on the vessel as a result of a defect to the
structure, machinery or equipment but the vessel had no evidence that the conditions had been complied
with.
Where no defects existed that had been notified to, or would have required notification to, the vessel’s Classification
Society, Flag Administration and/or other external stakeholders select "Not Answerable" in the Hardware response
tool, then select "Not Applicable - as instructed by question guidance".
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
2.5. Management of Change
