## Question 2.4.1

**Paragraph Number:**
2.4.1

---

### **Question**
Were the senior officers familiar with the company procedure for reporting defects
to vessel structure, machinery and equipment to shore-based management through the
company defect reporting system and was evidence available to demonstrate that all
defects had been reported accordingly?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Chief Engineer's Office, Anywhere
Publications
IACS: A Guide to Managing Maintenance in accordance with the requirements of the ISM Code.
IMO: ISM Code
IACS: Information Paper. Classification societies – what
why and how?

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that defects to vessel structure, machinery and equipment are documented and reviewed by
management.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which described the management and
operation of the defect report system.
• Review the entries in the defect reporting system and verify that they had been entered in accordance with
company expectations, communicated to the shore management within the time frame specified and had
been acknowledged.
• During the balance of the inspection note any obviously defective structure, machinery or equipment that
was not subject to a defect report for inclusion as an observation under this question.
• Review a sample defect report and confirm that a timeline for corrective action had been assigned and any
mitigating actions had been conducted as directed by shore-based management.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for managing defects to vessel structure, machinery and equipment through the
defect reporting system.
• The defect reporting system or the planned maintenance system where the systems were integrated.
• Shore based acknowledgement of each defect entered into the defect reporting system.
• A printed list of all open defects reports entered into the defect reporting system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no defect reporting system.
• There was no company procedure for managing defects to vessel structure, machinery and equipment
through the defect reporting system.
• The accompanying senior officer was unfamiliar with the company defect reporting procedure.
• Defects entered in the defect reporting system had not been acknowledged by shore management.
• Defects were evident onboard the vessel during the inspection that were required to be entered in the defect
reporting system but were not.
o In such cases identify the defective equipment in the negative observation module of the Hardware
response tool.
o Such observation should be limited to items listed on the supplements to the statutory certification
or subject to class survey.
• Defects which had either caused an incident or were caused by an incident that had not been reported
through the company incident reporting system for further investigation.
Where defects were properly recorded in the defect reporting system and acknowledged by shore management such
defects should not result in a negative observation under this question.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
