## Question 2.5.1

**Paragraph Number:**
2.5.1

---

### **Question**
Had the company Management of Change procedure been effectively implemented
for changes affecting structure, machinery and equipment governed by Classification
Society rules or statutory survey?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Anywhere, Documentation
Publications
None

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that any change made to the vessel structure, machinery or equipment is properly managed to
avoid an undesirable outcome.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company MOC procedure.
• Review the pre-inspection questionnaire and identify whether the vessel operator had declared that any
applicable changes have been carried out onboard within the previous twelve months.
• Review the vessel’s MOC register or database index.
• Where changes falling within the scope of the company MOC procedure and this question had taken place,
review the provided management of change request, risk assessment and associated documentation.
• During the physical inspection of the vessel and review of documentation for other questions note any
apparent recent changes to vessel structure, machinery or equipment which may be within scope of this
question but had not been declared.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s MOC register or database index.
• The MOC requests for all changes to vessel structure, machinery and equipment conducted onboard the
vessel during the previous twelve months.
• Supporting documents such as risk assessments, training plans, updated drawings lists etc. as identified
within each MOC request form.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company MOC procedure covering changes affecting class and/or flag regulated structure,
machinery and equipment.
• The accompanying senior officer was unfamiliar with the company MOC process, as it applied to changes
falling within the scope of this question, to structure, machinery and equipment onboard the vessel.
• Changes falling within the scope of this question to vessel structure, machinery or equipment, regulated by
class and/or flag, had been conducted within the previous twelve months but had not been declared on the
pre-inspection questionnaire.
• Changes to vessel structure, fittings or equipment, within the scope of this question, had been conducted
within the previous twelve months but there was no approved MOC request form and supporting
documentation onboard.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
2.6. Statutory Management Plans
