## Question 2.6.1

**Paragraph Number:**
2.6.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, deck officers and engineer officers familiar with the vessel’s
Ballast Water Management Plan and were records available to demonstrate that ballast
handling had been conducted in accordance with the plan?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: Ballast Water Management Convention and BWMS Code
IMO: Resolution MEPC.252(67) Guidelines for port state control under the BWM Convention
IMO: Resolution MEPC.288(71) 2017 Guidelines for ballast water exchange
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that ballast is always safely handled in accordance with the Ballast Water Management
Convention and BWMS Code.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the Ballast Water Management Plan.
• Sight the Ballast Water Management Certificate and identify the principal ballast water management
method.
• Review the ballast water record book (which may be an electronic record system or be integrated into
another record book or system) and verify that recent ballast handling operations were conducted and
documented in accordance with the Ballast Water Management Plan and Ballast Water Management
Certificate.
• Where ballast exchange had been undertaken, either as the principal ballast water management method or
in addition to the use of a ballast water treatment plant, verify that the exchange was planned and conducted
to minimize longitudinal and torsional stresses and other safety considerations identified in the IMO
Guidelines for Ballast Water Exchange.
• Where ballast water treatment or exchange had not been completed in accordance with the Ballast Water
Management Plan due to damage or defect to the ballast water treatment plant, review any communications
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
with the Flag and Port State Authorities and verify that any conditions placed on the vessel in respect of
ballast water management had been complied with and documented accordingly.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The Ballast Water Management Plan along with a copy of the Ballast Water Management Certificate.
• The Ballast Water Record Book or equivalent.
• Recent cargo and ballast plans along with supporting operational records to verify the times and duration of
ballast operations.
• Where ballast water exchange had taken place, the exchange plan showing the sequence of exchange and
the longitudinal stresses, draughts and trim at each stage of the operation.
• Where the ballast water treatment system could not be used to conduct ballast water exchange in
accordance with the Ballast Water Management Plan, notifications to the Flag and Port State Authorities
advising of the non-conformance.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The vessel did not have a Ballast Water Management Plan or a valid Ballast Water Management Certificate.
• The Ballast Water Management Plan was not approved by the Flag Sate or recognised organisation such as
a class society.
• The Ballast Water Management Plan was not ship-specific.
• The officer designated in the Ballast Water Management Plan to be in charge of ensuring that the plan was
properly implemented was not familiar with its contents.
• The Ballast Water Management Plan was not written in the working language of the ship.
• The accompanying deck or engineering officer was unfamiliar with the Ballast Water Management Plan, or
the entries required to be made in the ballast water record book.
• The Ballast Water Record Book had not been maintained in accordance with company procedures.
• Where ballast water exchange had taken place there was no plan showing the sequential exchange of
ballast which included the longitudinal stress at each stage of the operation.
• The ballast water treatment plant was reported to be defective in any respect.
• Where ballast operations had not been completed in accordance with the Ballast Water Management Plan
due to defect or accident to the ballast water treatment plant there was no evidence that the Flag and / or
Port State Authorities had been notified.
• Where Flag or Port State Authorities had imposed conditions on the vessel due to the failure of the ballast
water treatment plant, the vessel had not complied with the conditions imposed.
• There was evidence that the ballast water treatment plant had been bypassed in contravention to the Ballast
Water Management Plan.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
