## Question 2.6.2

**Paragraph Number:**
2.6.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the VOC Management Plan, and had the
procedures for minimising VOC emissions set out in the Plan been implemented and
documented as required?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MARPOL
IMO: Resolution MEPC.185(59) Guidelines for the development of a VOC Management Plan
OCIMF: Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Cargo Systems on Oil Tankers. First Edition 2019.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure VOC emissions are minimised by implementation of the VOC Management Plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the VOC Management Plan.
• Review the records of cargo operations and tank pressures at different stages of the voyage required to be
maintained by the VOC Management Plan.
• Review the records required to be maintained by the VOC Management Plan and verify that they were being
maintained for all stages of the voyage and cargo handling operations.
• Review the cargo plan and verify that it considered any requirements of the VOC management plan
applicable to the operation.
• Review the VOC Management Plan training records.
• Interview the person identified as responsible for implementing the Plan to verify their familiarity with the
contents and any specific record keeping requirements.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their awareness of:
o The VOC Management Plan.
o Any actions required to be completed during the ongoing cargo operation to comply with the Plan.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The VOC Management Plan.
• VOC Management Plan training records.
• Records required to be maintained to demonstrate compliance with the Plan.
• The cargo plan for the ongoing cargo operation.
• The deck logbook.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The VOC Management Plan was not approved by the Flag State or recognised organisation such as a Class
Society.
• The VOC Management Plan was not ship specific.
• The VOC Management Plan was not in a language readily understood by the Master and officers.
• The person identified as responsible for implementing the VOC Management Plan was not familiar with its
contents.
• The accompanying officer was not aware of the VOC Management Plan or familiar with the actions
necessary to comply with the provisions of the Plan (which may be incorporated in the cargo transfer plan).
• There was no evidence that the training programmes set out in the VOC Management Plan had been
implemented.
• There was no evidence that the procedures for minimising VOC emissions set out in the Plan had been
implemented during routine crude oil loading, carriage, discharge and crude oil washing.
• The target operating pressure for the cargo tanks was not clearly indicated in the cargo control room.
• Records required to be maintained by the VOC Management Plan had not been maintained for all occasions
when crude oil was being loaded, carried and discharged, including crude oil washing.
• Cargo tank pressure was maintained significantly below the target operating pressure during loading and/or
carriage of crude oil, by venting to atmosphere.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
