## Question 2.6.3

**Paragraph Number:**
2.6.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and senior officers familiar with the contents and requirements of
the Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP) and had these been fully
implemented?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Chief Engineer's Office
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MARPOL
IMO: Resolution MEPC.282(70) 2016 Guidelines for the development of a Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan
(SEEMP)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the measures set out in the SEEMP to improve fuel efficiency and collect fuel consumption data
have been fully implemented.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and review the Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP).
• Sight and review the documentary evidence that the package of measures listed in the SEEMP Part I to
improve the ship’s energy efficiency had been implemented and/or monitored.
• Sight and review, where applicable, records of the collection, aggregation, and reporting of ship data with
regard to annual fuel oil consumptions.
• Interview the Master and/or the Chief Engineer to verify their familiarity with the contents and requirements
of the Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP).

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP).
• Documentary evidence that the package of measures listed in the SEEMP Part I to improve the ship’s
energy efficiency had been implemented and/or monitored, which may be contained in bridge and engine
logbooks etc.
• On ships of 5,000 gross tonnage or above, records of the collection, aggregation, and reporting of ship data
with regard to annual fuel oil consumption, distance travelled, hours underway and other data required by
regulation 22A of MARPOL Annex VI to the flag Administration.
• Statement of Compliance – Fuel Oil Consumption Reporting, for ships of 5,000 gross tonnage or above.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The Master and/or the Chief Engineer were not familiar with the contents and requirements of the Ship
Energy Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP).
• The SEEMP Part I did not contain a package of measures to improve the ship's energy efficiency, and
details for their implementation, such as:
o Improved voyage planning.
o Weather routeing.
o Just in time arrival.
o Speed optimization.
o Optimum trim.
o Optimum use of rudder and heading. control systems (autopilots).
o Hull maintenance.
• The package of measures listed in the SEEMP Part I to improve the ship’s energy efficiency was not ship
specific.
• There was no evidence that the package of measures listed in the SEEMP Part I to improve the ship’s
energy efficiency had been implemented and/or monitored.
• On a ship of 5,000 gross tonnage or above:
o The SEEMP Part II did not include a description of the ship-specific method to collect, aggregate,
and report ship data with regard to annual fuel oil consumption, distance travelled, hours underway
and other data required by regulation 22A of MARPOL Annex VI to be reported to the flag
administration.
o A Statement of Compliance – Fuel Oil Consumption Reporting had not been issued.
o There were no records of the collection, aggregation, and/or reporting of ship data with regard to
annual fuel oil consumption, distance travelled, hours underway and other data required by
regulation 22A of MARPOL Annex VI to the flag administration.
o Records of fuel consumptions did not include all the fuel oil consumed on board, regardless of
whether the ship was underway or not:
 By the main engines, auxiliary engines, gas turbines, boilers and inert gas generator, if
fitted, and any other fuel consumer.
 For each type of fuel oil consumed e.g. HFO, DO, LNG etc.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
2.7. Safety Management System
