## Question 2.7.1

**Paragraph Number:**
2.7.1

---

### **Question**
Was the relevant content of the SMS manuals easily accessible to all personnel on
board in a working language(s) understood by them?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge, Cargo Control Room, Engine Control Room, Interview - Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all personnel on board can access and understand the procedures and instructions relevant
to them, set out in the ship’s SMS manuals.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the SMS manuals, whether in electronic format or in hard copy.
• Sight, and where necessary review, evidence that changes to the SMS are promptly brought to the attention
of the appropriate on-board personnel and understood (which may be documentary or electronic).
• Verify there is easy access to the navigation procedures and instructions on the bridge, whether in electronic
format or in hard copy.
• During the inspection, note versions of procedures and checklists etc. in use for consistency.
• Interview a rating at random to verify that they have easy access to the relevant content of the SMS manuals
in a working language they understand and are familiar with the means of accessing the SMS manuals.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• SMS manuals.
• Evidence that changes to the SMS are promptly brought to the attention of the appropriate on-board
personnel and understood (which may be documentary or electronic).

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The SMS manuals were not ‘user friendly’ and ship staff found it difficult and/or time consuming to navigate
to the appropriate information.
• A significant proportion of the content of the SMS manuals was not relevant to the ship e.g. described
procedures for general cargo ships, container ships or bulk carriers.
• Manuals were in hard-copy format but there were insufficient copies at appropriate locations.
• Manuals were only available in electronic format, but not all personnel had ready access to a work-station
and/or adequate training in accessing the SMS.
• The operator’s navigation procedures and instructions were not available on the bridge.
• The operator’s navigation procedures and instructions were available on the bridge in electronic format only,
but a back-up independent means of power supply to the work-station was not provided.
• All or some of the copies of the SMS manuals had not been updated with the latest changes.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Obsolete documentation, such as procedures or checklists which had been revised and superseded, were in
use on board.
• There was no procedure to ensure that changes to the SMS were promptly brought to the attention of the
appropriate on- board personnel and understood.
• There was no evidence that changes to the SMS had been promptly brought to the attention of the
appropriate on-board personnel and understood.
• An interviewed rating was not familiar with the process to access the sections of the SMS relevant to their
role.
• An interviewed rating was not able to understand the sections of the SMS manuals relevant to their role
onboard in the language(s) in which they were provided.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
