## Question 2.7.2

**Paragraph Number:**
2.7.2

---

### **Question**
Did the SMS identify clear levels of authority and lines of communication between
the Master, ship's officers, ratings and the company, and were all onboard personnel
familiar with these arrangements as they related to their position?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Cargo Control Room, Engine Control Room, Interview - Rating, Interview Senior Officer
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
IACS Recommendation No.41 (Rev.5 Oct 2019) Guidance for Auditors to the ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure all onboard personnel understand the levels of authority and lines of communication between the
Master, ship's officers, ratings and the company as they relate to their position.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the documented levels of authority and lines of communication between
the Master, ship's officers, ratings and the company documented in the SMS manuals.
• Interview a senior officer to verify that they are familiar with the lines of communication with the key
members of the operator’s organisation ashore, including the DPA.
• Interview a junior officer or rating to verify that they are aware of the identity, contact details and role of the
DPA.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The SMS manual showing documented levels of authority and lines of communication between the Master,
ship's officers, ratings and the company.
• The means of informing all officers and ratings of the identity and contact details of the DPA.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The SMS did not identify clear levels of authority and lines of communication between the Master, ship's
officers, ratings and the Company.
• A senior officer was not familiar with the lines of communication with the key members of the operator’s
organisation ashore.
• An interviewed junior officer or rating was not aware of the identity, contact details and role of the DPA.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
2.8. General Information
