## Question 2.8.2

**Paragraph Number:**
2.8.2

---

### **Question**
Were records of the most recent Port State Control inspection available onboard,
and where deficiencies had been recorded had these been corrected and closed out in
accordance with the company procedure for defects or non-conformities?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Pre-board
Publications
None

---

### **Objective**
To provide an accurate record of the most recent Port State Control (PSC) Inspection.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for managing PSC inspections.
Where the vessel operator had uploaded the details of Port State Control Inspections to the OCIMF PSC Inspection
Repository:
• Prior to boarding:
o Review the details of the PSC inspection report and verify that the data transferred to the
inspection editor was correct.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Review the PSC inspection report and any supporting documents.
o Review the documented evidence for the correction and close out of any deficiencies recorded
during the last PSC inspection.
o Consider checking vessel’s IMO number against the regional PSC MOU databases to confirm that
the PSC report uploaded to the inspection editor was the most recent.
• When onboard:
o Verify that the PSC inspection report uploaded to the OCIMF PSC Inspection Repository was the
same as the most recent report available onboard.
Where the vessel had changed management or name since the previous SIRE 2.0 inspection:
• Prior to boarding:
o Check the vessel’s IMO number against the regional PSC MOU databases and identify the most
recent PSC inspection recorded against the vessel.
• When onboard:
o Review the most recent PSC inspection report available onboard, but if none had taken place since
the change of management or name, record the data for the last recorded PSC Inspection against
the IMO number. Add a comment in the Process response tool to record that the inspection was
conducted under a different name or different operator.
Where the vessel operator was not utilising the OCIMF PSC Inspection Repository:
• Prior to boarding:
o Consider checking vessel’s IMO number against the regional PSC MOU databases to identify the
most recent PSC inspection.
• While onboard:
o Review the PSC inspection reports available onboard.
o Review the documented evidence for the correction and close out of any deficiencies recorded
during the last PSC inspection.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for managing PSC inspections.
• All PSC inspection reports for the previous three years, or if no PSC inspections had been carried out in that
period, the report for the last inspection conducted.
• Documented evidence that any deficiencies raised during the last PSC inspection had been corrected and
closed out with approval from shore management through either the non-conformity reporting system or
defect reporting system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for managing PSC inspections.
• Where the vessel operator was utilising the OCIMF PSC Inspection Repository, the most recent PSC
Inspection Report had not been uploaded (an allowance of five days since the completion of the inspection
prior to the synchronisation of the inspection editor should be allowed)
• The PSC inspection reports available onboard did not include the most recent PSC inspection available on
one of the PSC MOU databases.
• Where there were documented deficiencies during the last PSC inspection, there was no documented
evidence that the deficiencies had been corrected and closed out with shore management approval.
• The PSC data provided for the last inspection through the PIQ was incorrect in any respect.
Record a comment in the Process response tool to record the circumstances where the last inspection was
conducted under a different name or different operator.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
3. Crew Management
3.1. Crew Qualification
