## Question 2.8.1

**Paragraph Number:**
2.8.1

---

### **Question**
Was the OCIMF Harmonised Vessel Particulars Questionnaire (HVPQ) available
through the OCIMF SIRE Programme database completed accurately to reflect the
structure, outfitting, management and certification of the vessel?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Pre-board
Publications
None

---

### **Objective**


---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
Prior to boarding the vessel:
• Review the HVPQ downloaded to the inspection editor, and with reference to documents and certificates
made available through the inspection editor:
o Verify, as far as possible, the accuracy of:
 1 General information.
 2 Certificates.
 3 Crew.
 4 Navigation.
 7 Structural condition.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
 12 Propulsion.
o Conduct a general review of the HVPQ and make a note of:
 Any information which appears inconsistent with the type and specialisation of the vessel.
 Any information which will assist in better understanding the background of the questions
assigned to the bespoke VIQ for the inspection.
While onboard the vessel:
• Clarify any inconsistencies identified within the HVPQ with the Master or an appropriate officer.
• Inform the Master of any verified errors or omissions within the HVPQ.
• Document any verified errors or omissions within the HVPQ in accordance with the guidance provided.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
The following certificates and documents will be provided, as applicable to the vessel, through the inspection
software:
• HVPQ.
• SIRE Crew matrix.
• Class Status Summary Report (CSSR) (Owners version).
• Ballast Water Management Certificate.
• Certificate of Fitness for the Carriage of Chemicals or Gas.
• Certificate of Registry.
• Civil Liability Convention (1992) Certificate.
• Condition Assessment Programme (CAP) Certificate.
• Continuous Synopsis Record.
• Document of Compliance (DOC).
• International Ship Security Certificate.
• IOPP Certificate, supplemented by Form A or B.
• Load Line Certificate.
• Maritime Labour Convention (2006).
• Minimum Safe Manning Document.
• Noxious Liquid Substances (NLS) Certificate.
• P & I Club entry document.
• Safety Construction Certificate.
• Safety Equipment Certificate, supplemented by Form E.
• Safety Management Certificate.
• Safety Radio Certificate, supplemented by Form R.
• Statement of Compliance supplement.
• U.S. Coastguard Certificate of Financial Responsibility.
• U.S. Coastguard Certificate of Compliance.
• U.S. Coastguard Letter of Compliance.
• U.S. Coastguard Vessel Spill Response Plan approval letter.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
Where the information provided within the HVPQ misrepresented the details of the vessel through multiple systemic
inaccuracies or omissions relating to ownership, class status, validity of certification or outfitting of the vessel:
• Make an observation within the process response tool and add a comment to identify which questions were
provided with inaccurate information.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
