## Question 3.1.2

**Paragraph Number:**
3.1.2

---

### **Question**
Were procedures and instructions contained within the Safety Management System
and signs posted around the vessel available in the designated working language of the
vessel or a language(s) understood by the crew and, were the Master, officers and
ratings able to communicate verbally in the designated working language?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Anywhere
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the Master, officers and ratings can read and understand procedures, instructions and safety
signs onboard, and can communicate verbally in the designated working language of the vessel.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Observe the communications between the officers and between officers and ratings, during the inspection
and verify that:
o They were able to verbally communicate effectively in the designated working language of the
vessel.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The accompanying officer was able to translate a question, and the subsequent reply, directed at a
rating, into English consistent with the standard of English declared within the OCIMF crew matrix.
• Observe safety signs and instructions posted around the vessel and verify that:
o The signs or safety instructions were posted in the designated working language.
o Where ratings were not able to read the designated working language, the safety signs or
instructions were additionally posted in a language that they could read and understand.
• Observe the content of the SMS and where it had been developed in a language other than the designated
working language, verify that:
o Sections of the SMS containing safety instructions that were required to be understood by the
whole crew had been translated into the designated working language and, any other languages
necessary, to ensure that all officers and ratings were able to read and understand the content.
o Checklists and safe working procedures were translated into the designated working language.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The deck log book (or ship’s log book where different) which recorded the designated working language of
the vessel.
• The Safety Management System documentation, checklists etc.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The designated working language of the vessel had not been determined by the vessel operator.
• The designated working language in use during the inspection was not the same as declared through the
HVPQ and/or entered in the logbook.
• An officer or rating was observed to be unable to communicate verbally in the designated working language
of the vessel.
• An officer or rating was observed to be unable to read a safety sign or instruction in any of the language(s)
in which it was displayed.
• Where the common working language was not an official language of the Flag State, plans and notices
required to be posted did not include a translation into the designated working language.
• The sections of the Safety Management System required to be read and understood by all onboard had not
been translated into the designated working language of the vessel and, where necessary, another
language(s).
• Checklists and/or safe working procedures were not available in the designated working language of the
vessel.
Where there was a concern around the standard of spoken English with any officer, address the concern based on
the guidance provided in question 3.1.1.
Any observation(s) arising from this question should be entered into the Process response tool.
An observation that relates to an officer or rating being unable to communicate verbally in the designated working
language of the vessel is related to a deficiency in procedures and not the individual(s). The supporting comment
should describe the general circumstances and not identify the personnel involved beyond officer or rating.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
