## Question 3.1.1

**Paragraph Number:**
3.1.1

---

### **Question**
Were the officers and ratings suitably qualified to serve onboard the vessel and did
the officer matrix posted on the OCIMF website accurately reflect the qualifications,
experience and English language capabilities of the officers onboard at the time of the
inspection?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
IMO: STCW Code
OCIMF: Guidelines for the Completion of the On-Line Officer Matrix

---

### **Objective**


---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the officer matrix uploaded to the OCIMF website by the vessel operator and verify that:
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The information included in the matrix is accurate by randomly selecting one senior officer and
junior officer from each of the deck and engine departments (to include electricians, cargo
engineers and other specialist engineer officers, where carried) and cross checking their
certificates of competency, endorsements and sea service records (for time in rank only).
o All senior officers, junior deck officers and cargo/gas engineers hold a certificate in advanced
training for oil, chemical or liquified gas tanker operations as applicable to the vessel type.
o All junior engineer officers hold a certificate in basic training for oil, chemical or liquified gas tanker
operations as applicable to the vessel type.
• Where ratings, including the pumpman, are assigned duties with direct supervision of cargo operations verify
that they hold a certificate in advanced training for oil, chemical or liquified gas tanker operations as
applicable to the vessel type.
• Select one deck rating assigned duties and responsibilities related to cargo or cargo equipment and verify
that they hold a certificate of basic training for oil, chemical or liquified gas tanker operations as applicable to
the vessel type.
• During the inspection and while interviewing the Master, Chief Engineer and other officers pay attention to
the standard of English comprehension and spoken English. Where there are concerns with communication
in the English language with any officer, note the degree of English recorded against the individual’s rank in
the published officer matrix.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The updated officer matrix available on the OCIMF website reflecting all changes in crew that had occurred
more than four days before the inspection. (it is not expected that the vessel provides a paper or electronic
copy)
• The relevant documentation for each person onboard, in the following order or a standard order as defined
by the vessel operator, including:
o National certificate of competency (CoC).
o National certificate of basic or advanced training in oil, chemical or liquified gas tanker operations.
o Flag state endorsement of national certificate of competency (proof of application is acceptable for
a period not exceeding three months).
o Flag state endorsement of certificate of basic or advanced training for oil, chemical or liquified gas
tanker operations.
o National radio operator license.
o Flag State endorsement of radio operator license.
o Consolidated record of sea service supported by seaman’s book(s).
o Bridge Resource Management simulator based training course certificate (3.3.1).
o Engine Room Resource Management simulator based training course certificate (3.3.4).
o Cargo Operations simulator based training course certificate (3.3.3).
o Ship Handling Training certificate (3.3.2).
o Safety Officer Training certificate.
o Security Officer Training certificate.(7.4.1)
o Polar Navigation Training certificate (12.1.1).
o Ice Navigation Training certificate.(12.6.1)
o DP Operator Certification (3.3.5).
o High Voltage Training certificate (3.3.5).
o DP Control System Maintenance Course certificate (3.3.5).
o Integrated DP/Power Management Control System Training Course certificate (3.3.5).

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The officer matrix had not been updated to reflect the officers who were on board at the time of the
inspection (an allowance will be made for any officer that had changed within the previous four days).
• The accompanying senior officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance of officer and rating certification
records onboard.
• The details contained in the officer matrix were inaccurate in terms of:
o National Certificate of Competency (CoC).
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o National Certificate in advanced or basic training for oil, gas or chemical service.
o Flag endorsements of CoC or training for oil, gas or chemical service.
o National radio operator license or flag endorsement.
o The sea service in rank.
• An officer's CoC or Flag Endorsement included a limitation that would prevent them from performing their
duties on the inspected vessel.
• A senior officer, junior deck officer or cargo/gas engineer did not hold a certificate in advanced training for
oil, chemical or liquified gas tanker operations as applicable to the vessel type.
• A rating, including the pumpman, with immediate responsibility for loading, discharging, care in transit,
handling of cargo tank cleaning or other cargo-related operations on oil, chemical or liquified gas tankers did
not hold a certificate in advanced training for tanker operations as applicable to the vessel type.
• The sea time in rank for any officer whose records were sampled was found to be inaccurate or records
were not available to verify sea time in rank. (verification checks will only cover up to thirty-six months sea
service onboard).
• The flag endorsement for any individual officer did not reflect the details of the national CoC on which they
were based.
• There was a concern with the standard of English language comprehension or spoken English with an
officer who was recorded as having a “good” standard of English within the published officer matrix.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
