## Question 3.1.3

**Paragraph Number:**
3.1.3

---

### **Question**
Did the complement of officers and ratings onboard at the time of inspection meet
or exceed the requirements of the Minimum Safe Manning Document and the declared
company standard manning for routine operations, and had senior officers been relieved
to ensure continuity of operational knowledge?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Pre-board
Publications
IMO: Resolution A.1047(27). Principles of Safe Manning
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vessel is always adequately manned for the operations expected to be undertaken based
on the normal trading pattern and any foreseeable specialist operations or periods of heightened workload.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the information provided by the vessel operator through the pre-inspection questionnaire and
compare against:
o The minimum safe manning document.
o A copy of the arrival crew list provided by the Master.
o The current OCIMF crew matrix available on the OCIMF SIRE database.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The Minimum Safe Manning Document.
• A copy of the arrival crew list provided by the Master.
• The current OCIMF crew matrix available on the OCIMF SIRE database.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The crew onboard on arrival at the port of inspection did not meet the requirements of the Safe Manning
Document in any respect.
• The crew onboard on arrival at the port of inspection did not:
o Meet the standard manning level declared through the pre-inspection questionnaire, or
o Meet the company enhanced manning provision when conducting:
 Continuous/extended/repeated STS operations.
 Continuous/extended/repeated inter-harbour operations and/or short voyages of less than
24 hours.
 Operations requiring implementation of additional security measures.
 Other specialist operations
• The number of officers onboard on arrival at the port of inspection was less than declared through the
OCIMF crew matrix.
• The machinery space was routinely operated in the manned mode at sea while the actual number of
engineers onboard was insufficient to meet the requirements of the Safe Manning Document.
• Both senior officers from a single department were being relieved at the port of inspection with no overlap or
parallel sailing period for at least one of the officers to cover the minimum relief interval declared through the
pre-inspection questionnaire.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
3.2. Crew Evaluation
