## Question 3.2.4

**Paragraph Number:**
3.2.4

---

### **Question**
Was a report available onboard which confirmed that an unannounced remote
navigational assessment, which included review of VDR & ECDIS data by an independent
contractor or specialist company representative, had been completed as declared
through the pre-inspection questionnaire?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge
Publications
OCIMF A Guide to Best Practice for Navigational Assessments and Audits
OCIMF: Recommendations on the Proactive Use of Voyage Data Recorder Information (revised edition August 2020)

---

### **Objective**
To verify the extent of company evaluation and oversight of navigational standards onboard managed
vessels.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
Review the remote navigational assessment report and verify that:
• The remote navigational assessment included the phases of a voyage as declared in the pre-inspection
questionnaire.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The remote navigational assessment was unannounced and included the download and review of VDR and
ECDIS data.
• Brief details of the assessor’s qualification and experience were included within the report.
• The report was substantially in alignment with the format, and contained information, as suggested by the
OCIMF publication “A Guide to Best Practice for Navigational Assessments and Audits”.
• Where the report identified areas for improvement there was evidence that follow up had been undertaken
by the company and/or vessel as appropriate.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The report for the remote navigational assessment conducted by either an independent contractor or
specialist company representative as declared through the pre-inspection questionnaire.
• The Bridge Log Book to cover the period of the reported remote navigation assessment (for geographical
verification purposes only).
• A corrective action plan with due dates for each area for improvement identified during the remote
navigational assessment.
• Supporting evidence for each closed area for improvement identified and included in the corrective action
plan.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The remote navigational assessment report for the assessment declared through the pre-inspection
questionnaire was not available onboard.
• The remote navigational assessment did not include review of downloaded VDR and ECDIS data as well as
supporting material such as passage plans, under-keel clearance calculations and copies (photos) of paper
charts where no ECDIS was carried.
• The remote navigational assessment covered a period solely at anchor or open sea navigation where no
navigational challenges were present.
• The remote navigational assessment did not cover the phases of the voyage as declared by the operator
through the pre-inspection questionnaire.
• The details of the qualifications and pertinent seafaring experience of the assessor were not included within
the report.
• The assessor did not hold or had not held a senior deck officer licence and/or had not sailed as a senior
deck officer.
• The remote navigational assessment report was not substantially in alignment with the OCIMF guidance
document “A Guide to Best Practice for Navigational Assessments and Audits”
• There was no corrective action plan with defined due dates for all areas for improvement identified during
the remote navigational assessment.
• There was no evidence that the areas for improvement identified during the remote navigational assessment
had been closed out within the due dates indicated within the corrective action plan.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
