## Question 3.2.6

**Paragraph Number:**
3.2.6

---

### **Question**
Was a report available onboard which confirmed that a comprehensive engineering
audit by a suitable qualified and experienced company representative had been
completed as declared in the pre-inspection questionnaire?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Engine Control Room, Chief Engineer's Office
Publications
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.
OCIMF A Guide to Best Practice for Navigational Assessments and Audits

---

### **Objective**


---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
The inspector should sight the comprehensive engineering audit report and verify that:
• The comprehensive engineering audit was conducted during the period declared through the pre-inspection
questionnaire.
• The comprehensive engineering audit covered the cargo, ballast and bunkering operations as declared
through the pre-inspection questionnaire.
• Brief details of the assessor’s qualification and experience were included within the report.
• The report contained information relating to the majority of the best practice points from TMSA KPI 4.4.5.
• Where the report identified areas for improvement there was evidence that follow up had been undertaken
within a specified timeframe by the company and/or vessel as appropriate.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The report for the comprehensive engineering audit conducted by a suitably qualified and experienced
company representative as declared through the pre-inspection questionnaire.
• The Engine Room Log Book to cover the period of the reported comprehensive engineering audit (for
geographical and operational verification purposes only).
• A corrective action plan with due dates for each area for improvement identified during the comprehensive
engineering audit.
• Supporting evidence, which may include lessons learnt documents shared across the fleet, for each closed
area for improvement identified and included in the corrective action plan.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The report for the comprehensive engineering audit declared through the pre-inspection questionnaire was
not available onboard.
• The comprehensive engineering audit did not cover the machinery space operations or was not completed
during the date range as declared by the operator through the pre-inspection questionnaire.
• The details of the qualifications and pertinent seafaring experience of the assessor were not included within
the report.
• The assessor did not hold or had not held a senior engineering officer licence and/or had not sailed as a
senior engineer officer onboard tankers.
• The comprehensive engineering audit report was not substantially in alignment with the suggested best
practice guidance of TMSA KPI 4.4.5
• There was no corrective action plan with defined due dates for all areas for improvement identified during
the comprehensive engineering audit.
• There was no evidence that the areas for improvement identified during the comprehensive engineering
audit had been closed out within the due dates indicated within the corrective action plan.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
