## Question 3.2.5

**Paragraph Number:**
3.2.5

---

### **Question**
Was a report available onboard which confirmed that a comprehensive cargo audit
by a suitably qualified and experienced company representative had been completed as
declared through the pre-inspection questionnaire?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Cargo Control Room
Publications
OCIMF A Guide to Best Practice for Navigational Assessments and Audits

---

### **Objective**


---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
The inspector should sight the comprehensive cargo audit report and verify that:
• The comprehensive cargo audit was conducted during the period declared through the pre-inspection
questionnaire.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The comprehensive cargo audit covered the cargo, ballast and bunkering operations as declared through
the pre-inspection questionnaire.
• Brief details of the assessor’s qualification and experience were included within the report.
• The report contained information relating to the majority of the best practice points from TMSA KPI 6.4.2.
• Where the report identified areas for improvement there was evidence that follow up had been undertaken
within a specified timeframe by the company and/or vessel as appropriate.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The report for the comprehensive cargo audit conducted by a suitably qualified and experienced company
representative as declared through the pre-inspection questionnaire.
• The Deck Log Book and/or Cargo Log Book to cover the period of the reported comprehensive cargo audit
(for geographical and operational verification purposes only).
• A corrective action plan with due dates for each area for improvement identified during the comprehensive
cargo audit.
• Supporting evidence, which may include lessons learnt documents shared across the fleet, for each closed
area for improvement identified and included in the corrective action plan.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The report for the comprehensive cargo audit declared through the pre-inspection questionnaire was not
available onboard.
• The comprehensive cargo audit did not cover the cargo or bunker operations or was not completed during
the date range as declared by the operator through the pre-inspection questionnaire.
• The details of the qualifications and pertinent seafaring experience of the assessor were not included within
the report.
• The assessor did not hold or had not held a senior deck officer licence and/or had not sailed as a senior
deck officer onboard tankers.
• The comprehensive cargo audit report was not substantially in alignment with the suggested best practice
guidance of TMSA KPI 6.4.2
• There was no corrective action plan with defined due dates for all areas for improvement identified during
the comprehensive cargo audit.
• There was no evidence that the areas for improvement identified during the comprehensive cargo audit had
been closed out within the due dates indicated within the corrective action plan.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
