## Question 3.2.7

**Paragraph Number:**
3.2.7

---

### **Question**
Was a report available onboard which confirmed that a comprehensive mooring
and anchoring audit by a suitably qualified and experienced company representative had
been completed as declared through the pre-inspection questionnaire?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
OCIMF Anchoring Systems and Procedures 2010 edition
OCIMF A Guide to Best Practice for Navigational Assessments and Audits
OCIMF: Mooring Equipment Guidelines. Fourth Edition 2018 (MEG4)
INTERTANKO: Anchoring Guidelines: A Risk-Based Approach v.3 June 2020

---

### **Objective**
To verify the extent of company evaluation and oversight of mooring and anchoring operational standards
onboard managed vessels.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
The inspector should sight the comprehensive mooring and anchoring audit report and verify that:
• The comprehensive mooring and anchoring audit was conducted during the period declared through the pre-
inspection questionnaire.
• The comprehensive mooring and anchoring audit covered the mooring and anchoring operations as
declared through the pre-inspection questionnaire.
• Brief details of the assessor’s qualification and experience were included within the report.
• The report contained information relating to the majority of the best practice points from TMSA KPI 6A.4.3.
• Where the report identified areas for improvement there was evidence that follow up had been undertaken
within a specified timeframe by the company and/or vessel as appropriate.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The report for the comprehensive mooring and anchoring audit conducted by a suitably qualified and
experienced company representative as declared through the pre-inspection questionnaire.
• The Deck Log Book to cover the period of the reported comprehensive mooring and anchoring audit (for
geographical and operational verification purposes only).
• A corrective action plan with due dates for each area for improvement identified during the comprehensive
mooring and anchoring audit.
• Supporting evidence, which may include lessons learnt documents shared across the fleet, for each closed
area for improvement identified and included in the corrective action plan.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The report for the comprehensive mooring and anchoring audit declared through the pre-inspection
questionnaire was not available onboard.
• The comprehensive mooring and anchoring audit did not cover the type of mooring and anchoring
operations or was not completed during the date range as declared by the operator through the pre-
inspection questionnaire.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The details of the qualifications and pertinent seafaring experience of the assessor were not included within
the report.
• The assessor did not hold or had not held a senior deck officer licence and/or had not sailed as a senior
deck officer onboard tankers.
• The comprehensive mooring and anchoring audit report was not substantially in alignment with the
suggested best practice guidance of TMSA KPI 6A.4.3.
• There was no corrective action plan with defined due dates for all areas for improvement identified during
the comprehensive mooring and anchoring audit.
• There was no evidence that the areas for improvement identified during the comprehensive mooring and
anchoring audit had been closed out within the due dates indicated within the corrective action plan.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
