## Question 3.2.8

**Paragraph Number:**
3.2.8

---

### **Question**
Had the vessel operator implemented a Behavioural Competency Assessment
Programme onboard and was there evidence available that assessments were being
conducted for navigation, cargo, mooring and engineering operations by approved
assessors?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
OCIMF/INTERTANKO: Behavioural Competency Assessment and Verification for Vessel Operators

---

### **Objective**
To verify the extent of company evaluation and oversight of competency standards onboard managed
vessels.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
Review the Behavioural Competency Assessment and Verification programme and verify that:
• The assessment programme covered as a minimum; navigation, cargo operations, mooring operations and
engineering operations
• The vessel operator had defined who was considered qualified to be an approved assessor
• The vessel operator had defined the training requirement for an approved assessor
• If vessel staff onboard at the time of the inspection were considered as approved assessors, then they had
evidence of the required training for an approved assessor.
• There was evidence that the staff onboard at the time of the inspection were actively involved in the
competency assessment programme with historical records of their competency assessments available for
their company service since the inception of the programme.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The Behavioural Competency Assessment and Verification Programme Guide.
• The qualifications for any approved assessors onboard at the time of the inspection.
• The records (summary) of competency assessments completed for all staff onboard at the time of the
inspection who were included in the competency assessment programme since they joined the company or
the inception of the programme.
• Sample assessments for cargo, navigation, mooring and engineering competencies.
Individual crew member records may be electronic or hard-copy but must allow the inspector to see the full training
history for everyone included in the programme.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no evidence that there was a functional Behavioural Competency Assessment and Verification
Programme in operation onboard.
• The Behavioural Competency Assessment and Verification Programme did not cover navigation, cargo
operations, mooring operations and engineering operations.
• Onboard staff identified as approved assessors were not in possession of the company defined training for
approved assessors.
• There were no summary records available for the staff included in the Behavioural Competency Assessment
and Verification Programme which showed their achievements since joining the company or the inception of
the programme.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
3.3. Crew Training
