## Question 3.2.1

**Paragraph Number:**
3.2.1

---

### **Question**
Was a report available onboard which confirmed that a static navigational
assessment by a suitably qualified and experienced company representative had been
completed as declared through the pre-inspection questionnaire?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge
Publications
OCIMF A Guide to Best Practice for Navigational Assessments and Audits

---

### **Objective**
To verify the extent of company evaluation and oversight of navigational standards onboard managed
vessels

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
Review the static navigation assessment and verify that:
• The assessment was conducted on the date declared by the operator through the pre-inspection
questionnaire.
• The report was in a similar format, and covered the review items suggested by, the OCIMF publication “A
Guide to Best Practice for Navigational Assessments and Audits”.
• Brief details of the assessor’s qualifications and experience were included within the report.
• The report contained information relating to the best practice guidance points from TMSA KPI 5.2.2
• Where the report identified areas for improvement there was evidence that follow up had been undertaken
within a specified timeframe by the company and/or vessel as appropriate.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The report for the static navigational assessment declared by the operator through the pre-inspection
questionnaire.
• A corrective action plan with due dates for each area for improvement identified during the static
navigational assessment.
• Supporting evidence for each closed area for improvement identified and included in the corrective action
plan.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The report for the static navigational assessment declared through the pre-inspection questionnaire was not
available onboard.
• The details of the qualifications and pertinent seafaring experience of the assessor were not included within
the report.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The assessor did not hold or had not held a senior deck officer licence and / or had not sailed as a senior
deck officer.
• The static navigational assessment report was not substantially in alignment with the guidance document “A
Guide to Best Practice for Navigational Assessments and Audits” and the best practice guidance under
TMSA KPI 5.2.2.
• There was no corrective action plan with defined due dates for all areas for improvement identified during
the dynamic navigational assessment.
• There was no evidence that the areas for improvement identified during the dynamic navigational
assessment had been closed out within the due dates indicated within the corrective action plan.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
