## Question 3.2.3

**Paragraph Number:**
3.2.3

---

### **Question**
Was a report available onboard which confirmed that a dynamic navigational
assessment by a suitably qualified specialist contractor had been completed while on
passage as declared through the pre-inspection questionnaire?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge
Publications
OCIMF A Guide to Best Practice for Navigational Assessments and Audits

---

### **Objective**
To verify the extent of company evaluation and oversight of navigational standards onboard managed
vessels

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
Review the report for the dynamic navigational assessment conducted by a suitably qualified and experienced
specialist contractor and verify that:
• The assessment was conducted during the period declared by the operator through the pre-inspection
questionnaire.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The assessment covered all sections of a voyage as declared by the operator through the pre-inspection
questionnaire.
• Brief details of the assessor’s qualification and experience were included within the report.
• The report was in a similar format, and covered the review items suggested by, the OCIMF guidance paper
“A Guide to Best Practice for Navigational Assessments and Audits”.
• The report contained information relating to the majority of the best practice guidance points from TMSA KPI

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The report for the dynamic navigational assessment conducted by a suitably qualified specialist contractor
as declared in the pre-inspection questionnaire.
• The Bridge Log Book to cover the period of the reported dynamic navigation assessment. (for geographical
verification purposes only)
• A corrective action plan with due dates for each area for improvement identified during the navigational
assessment.
• Supporting evidence for each closed area for improvement identified and included in the corrective action
plan.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The report for the dynamic navigational assessment declared through the pre-inspection questionnaire was
not available onboard.
• The dynamic navigational assessment did not cover the stages of the voyage or was not completed during
the date range as declared by the operator through the pre-inspection questionnaire.
• The details of the qualifications and pertinent seafaring experience of the assessor were not included within
the report.
• The assessor did not hold or had not held a senior deck officer licence and/or had not sailed as a senior
deck officer.
• The dynamic navigational assessment report was not substantially in alignment with the guidance document
“A Guide to Best Practice for Navigational Assessments and Audits” and the best practice guidance under
TMSA KPI 5.3.3.
• There was no corrective action plan with defined due dates for all areas for improvement identified during
the dynamic navigational assessment.
• There was no evidence that the areas for improvement identified during the dynamic navigational
assessment had been closed out within the due dates indicated within the corrective action plan.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
