## Question 3.3.4

**Paragraph Number:**
3.3.4

---

### **Question**
Had the Chief Engineer and all engineer officers attended a shore-based engine
room management simulator course covering routine and emergency machinery
operations within the previous five years?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
IMO: Model Course 2.07 – Engine-Room Simulator.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the Chief Engineer and all engineer officers involved in manoeuvring operations had been
practically trained in routine and emergency machinery operations in a realistic simulator environment.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
Review the shore-based engine room management simulator training certificates for the Chief Engineer and all
engineers onboard and verify that:
• The training had been completed within the previous five years for the Chief Engineer and each engineer
officer onboard. The training may be a refresher training course where a full course had been undertaken
previously.
• The training course was conducted in a simulator representing the main propulsion type of vessel being
inspected.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The shore-based engine room management simulator training certificates for the Chief Engineer and all
engineers.
• Where the shore-based engine room management simulator training had been completed more than five
years previously, a certificate for a refresher training course with an appropriate engine room simulator
element.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The Chief Engineer and/or any one of the engineer officers onboard during the inspection did not have
evidence of attending either a full or refresher engine room management simulator course within the
previous five years.
• The training courses attended by the Chief Engineer and/or any one of the engineer officers was for a
propulsion type other than the type fitted to the vessel being inspected.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
