## Question 3.3.6

**Paragraph Number:**
3.3.6

---

### **Question**
Had the Master, officers and ratings received the required training and
familiarisation before being assigned duties related to handling LNG or other low-
flashpoint fuel?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGF Code
ICS: Training requirements for personnel on ships subject to the IGF code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that personnel on board ships using LNG or other low-flashpoint fuels are adequately qualified,
trained, and experienced.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which defined the requirement for Basic and
Advanced Training for service on ships subject to the IGF Code, which may be in the form of a training
matrix.
• Review:
o A Basic Training Certificate for one engine room rating.
o Two Advanced Training Certificates sampled from the Master, Chief Engineer and engineer
officers.
o Ship-specific familiarisation records for the LNG or low-flashpoint fuel system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which defined the requirement for Basic and Advanced Training for service on
ships subject to the IGF Code, which may be in the form of a training matrix.
• Basic and Advanced Training Certificates of Proficiency for service in vessels subject to the IGF Code.
• On existing vessels, alternative certification as required by the flag state.
• Records of familiarisation for the LNG or low-flashpoint fuel system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which defined the requirement for Basic and Advanced Training for
service on ships subject to the IGF Code.
• A crew member with responsibilities associated with the fuel or fuel system on board had not received ship-
specific familiarisation with the systems fitted before being assigned duties.
• On a vessel subject to the IGF Code:
o A crew member responsible for designated safety duties associated with the care, use or
emergency response to the fuel on board had not received the required Basic Training.
o The Master, an engineer officer or any other person with immediate responsibility for the care and
use of the fuel and fuel systems on board had not received the required Advanced Training.
• On an existing vessel using LNG or other low-flashpoint fuel:
o A crew member had not received the training required by the vessel’s flag state administration.
• A crew member had not received training in accordance with the company procedure which defined the
requirement for Basic and Advanced Training for service on ships subject to the IGF Code.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
3.4. Crew Compliance
