## Question 3.3.1

**Paragraph Number:**
3.3.1

---

### **Question**
Had the Master and all navigation officers attended a shore-based Bridge Team
Management training course within the previous five years?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
IMO Model Course 1.22. Ship Simulator and Bridge Teamwork

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all navigation officers have been trained in the practical application of crew resource
management in a realistic navigational environment.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
Review the Bridge Team Management training certificates for the Master and navigation officers and verify that:
• The training was completed within the previous five years by each officer.
• The training was stated as being in accordance with IMO model course 1.22.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The Bridge Team Management training certificates for the Master and navigation officers.
• Where the Bridge Team Management training certificate did not state that it was in accordance with IMO
Model Course 1.22, evidence that the training course included a bridge simulator element which required
that simulator based navigational exercises were at least equivalent to the requirements of IMO Model
Course 1.22. (19 hours simulator time).

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The Master and/or any one of the navigation officers onboard during the inspection did not have evidence of
attending a Bridge Team Simulator training course at least equivalent to IMO Model Course 1.22 within the
previous five years.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
