## Question 3.3.5

**Paragraph Number:**
3.3.5

---

### **Question**
Did all key personnel onboard involved in Dynamically Positioned (DP) operations
have appropriate training in accordance with IMO and International Marine Contractors
Association (IMCA) guidelines and local regulations applicable to the area of operations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge
Publications
IMCA: Guidelines for The Training and Experience of Key DP Personnel. Rev. 2.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.738/Rev.2. Guidelines for Dynamic Positioning System (DP) Operator Training.
IMO: STCW Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all key personnel onboard are properly experienced, trained and qualified to participate in
Dynamically Positioned (DP) operations in accordance with industry recommended best practice and local
regulation.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the vessel’s completed DP training matrix for all staff onboard at the time of the inspection and verify
that each person had completed the required training for their role onboard within the time frame specified
by the company training matrix.
• Review the DP logbook and DP Operator certificate for one randomly selected DP operator and verify that
the logbook had been maintained up to date with DP experience since gaining the DP operator certificate.
• Where the vessel operator required periodic refresher DP training, either by utilising the vessel’s own DP
equipment while not conducting actual DP operations or by attendance at a shore-based course, verify that
the refresher training had been completed within the required time frame.
• Review the High Voltage, DP/Power Management or DP control system training certificate for one individual
and verify that the training certificate was valid, and any refresher or top-up training required to maintain
validity had been completed within the required time frame.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company training matrix which identified the DP related certification and training requirements for each
DP related role onboard.
• The vessel’s populated training matrix which showed the current status of all DP related certification and
training for all onboard staff having a DP related role.
• The DP Operator certificates and DP logbooks for everyone identified as a qualified DP operator.
• The DP refresher training course certificates or scheme records where onboard refresher activities had
taken place as part of a recognised programme.
• The High Voltage, DP/Power Management and DP control system training certificates for each member of
onboard staff required to have such training.
• The position reference system training course certificates for each member of staff required to have such
training.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The vessel operator had not developed a training matrix which identified all DP related training and
certification that was required to be completed by each onboard position with a DP related role.
• The vessel had not prepared a record of training and certification to demonstrate that all DP related
certification and training had been completed by each individual onboard with a DP related role.
• The required training certificates or DP Operator certificates were found to be missing, expired or outdated
for any individual with a DP related role.
• There was no process to provide DP refresher training to the DP operators through a periodic shore-based
course or an approved onboard process.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The High Voltage, DP/Power management or DP control system training courses required to be undertaken
by the Senior Engine Room Operator and, the Electrical and Electronics Technicians in accordance with the
company training matrix had not been completed.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
