## Question 3.3.3

**Paragraph Number:**
3.3.3

---

### **Question**
Had the Master, deck officers, and cargo/gas engineer where carried, attended a
shore-based simulator course covering routine and emergency cargo operations within
the previous five years?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
IMO: Model Course 1.35 – Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) Tanker Cargo & Ballast Handling Simulator.
IMO: Model Course 1.36 – Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) Tanker Cargo & Ballast Handling Simulator.
IMO: Model Course 1.37 – Chemical Tanker Cargo & Ballast Handling Simulator.
IMO: Model Course 2.06 – Oil Tanker Cargo & Ballast Handling Simulator.

---

### **Objective**
To establish whether all officers involved in cargo operations had been practically trained in routine and
emergency cargo operations in a realistic simulator environment.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
Review the shore-based cargo system simulator training course certificates for the Master, deck officers,
and cargo/gas engineer where carried, and verify that:
• The training had been completed within the previous five years for the Master, each deck officer and
cargo/gas engineer. The training may be a refresher training course where a full course had been
undertaken previously.
• The training course was conducted in a simulator representing the type of vessel being inspected i.e. oil,
chemical, LPG or LNG.
• The training certificates indicated that the course content was at least equivalent to the appropriate IMO
model course for the vessel type.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The shore-based cargo system simulator training certificates for the Master, deck officers and cargo/gas
engineer where carried.
• Where the shore-based cargo system simulator training had been completed more than five years
previously, a certificate for a refresher training course with an appropriate cargo simulator element.
• Where a refresher training course was undertaken, the supporting full course certificate must also be
available for review.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The Master and/or any one of the deck officers or cargo/gas engineers onboard during the inspection did not
have evidence of attending either a full or refresher cargo system simulator training course within the
previous five years.
• The training courses attended by the Master and/or any one of the deck officers or cargo/gas engineers was
for a vessel type other than the type of vessel being inspected.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
