## Question 3.3.2

**Paragraph Number:**
3.3.2

---

### **Question**
Had the Master received formal ship handling training prior to promotion or when
being assigned to a new type of ship having significantly different handling
characteristics to ships in which they had recently served?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
IMO: STCW Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the Master is familiar with the ship handling characteristics of the type of ship to which they have
been assigned.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
Compare the sea service record of the Master through the tabulated record of sea service prepared by the vessel
operator with their discharge book and verify the time served as Master corresponded to the value provided in the
Officer Matrix uploaded to the OCIMF website.
Where the Master had served less than thirty-six months sea service in rank, request evidence that ship handling
training had been provided prior to promotion to Master. This may consist of either;
• A formal in-house training program designed to meet the objectives of the STCW Code B-V/a.
• Attendance at a shore-based training course designed to meet the objectives of the STCW Code B-V/a.
Where the Master had transferred between vessel types having significantly different handling characteristics within
the previous twelve months of sea service, request evidence that additional ship handling training had been provided
to the Master prior to taking command of the new type of vessel. This may consist of either;
• A formal in-house training program designed to meet the objectives of the STCW Code B-V/a.
• Attendance at a shore-based training course designed to meet the objectives of the STCW Code B-V/a.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
When considering what constitutes significantly different handling characteristics, be guided by the company training
matrix and groupings of vessel types having similar handling characteristics. It is not expected that the inspector will
comment on the evaluation of ship handling characteristics made by the vessel operator.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The Master’s sea service record and discharge book.
• The company training matrix showing the mandatory and non-mandatory training requirements for the
Master.
• The company matrix of the handling characteristics of vessels under management considering the number
and type of propellers, rudders and thrusters fitted to a vessel as well as the vessel size, and the training
requirements for transfer between vessel types.
• Where the Master had less than thirty-six months sea service in the rank of Master evidence that they had
undergone a formal in-house ship handling competency development programme and/or a shore-based
training course which had been developed to meet the objectives of the STCW Code B-V/a.
• Where the Master had been reassigned to a vessel type with significantly different handling characteristics,
as identified by the vessel operator, evidence that they had undergone a formal in-house ship handling
competency development programme and/or a shore-based training course which had been developed to
meet the objectives of the STCW Code B-Va prior to taking command.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The time in rank for the Master entered in the OCIMF Officer Matrix was inaccurate in that the time in rank
declared was greater than thirty-six months sea service, but the Master had less than thirty-six months sea
service in rank.
• There was no company training matrix available which clearly identified the circumstances in which ship
handling training was required to be completed by a Master both at promotion and when being reassigned to
a vessel having significantly different handling characteristics.
• The vessel operator had not provided an evaluation of the handling characteristics of vessels under
management and identified where training was necessary when transferring between vessel identified as
having specific handling characteristics due to size or number and type of propellers, rudders or thrusters.
• The Master had less than thirty-six months sea service in rank but was not in possession of evidence of ship
handling training, designed to meet the objective of STCW Code B-Va, provided through an in-house
competency development programme or a shore-based training course.
• The Master had been reassigned to a vessel identified by the company as having significantly different
handling characteristics within the previous twelve months of sea service but was not in possession of
evidence of ship handling training, relevant to the new vessel’s characteristics, designed to meet the
objective of STCW Code B-Va, provided through an in-house competency development programme or a
shore-based training course.
• Where the Master had more than thirty-six months sea service in rank and had served on the same type of
vessel for the more than the previous twelve months sea service select “Not Answerable” in the Process
response tool then select "Not Applicable - as instructed by question guidance".
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
