## Question 3.4.1

**Paragraph Number:**
3.4.1

---

### **Question**
Was there an effective system in place to record and monitor the hours of rest for
all personnel onboard in compliance with STCW, MLC or the regulatory requirements
applicable to the vessel?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1598 Guidelines on Fatigue
ILO: Convention on Seafarers’ Hours of Work and the Manning of Ships’ (ILO 180)
OCIMF: Recommendations Relating to the Application of Requirements Governing Seafarers’ Hours of Work and
Rest
IMO: STCW Code
IMO/ILO: Guidelines for the development of tables of seafarers’ shipboard working arrangements and formats of
records of seafarers’ hours of work and rest

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that there is an effective system in place to manage crew rest hours and fatigue.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which defined how hours of rest were to be
managed and recorded.
• Review the hours of rest records form and verify that it was in alignment with the prescribed IMO/ILO format.
• Review hours of rest records and compare them against log books and other records for a recently
completed operation and verify that the hours of rest records realistically reflected the activities conducted
by the vessel and individual seafarers.
• Review the hours of rest record summary report provided to shore management and verify that the
management had acknowledge receipt and responded with an action plan where significant non-
conformities were present in the summary report.
Suggested activities to review include :
• Bunkering operations including anchoring and the berthing of the bunker barge.
• Loading / discharging operations including inbound/outbound passages and mooring operations.
• Transit of straits or inland waterways with considerable standby requirements such as Singapore/Malacca
Straits, Turkish Straits, English Channel / Dover Straits or similar.
• Post drydock departure and preparations to return to commercial service.
• Navigation during extended periods of restricted visibility.
• Extensive tank cleaning operations.
• Extensive enclosed space operations.
Consideration should be given to compliance with company procedures relating to:
• Bridge team composition.
• Engine room status and, when required to be manned, engine room team composition.
• Supervision and management of cargo and bunker operations.
• Supervision and management of mooring and anchoring operations.
• The conduct of emergency response drills.
The suggested activities and considerations are not exhaustive, and the inspector should exercise professional
experience when conducting cross checks against records while limiting the document review to a single operation or
period not exceeding three days.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure that defined how hours of rest were to be managed and recorded.
• Completed hours of rest records for the preceding three months signed, physically or digitally as acceptable
to the vessel’s Administration, by the individual crewmembers and approved by the Master or their
authorised representative.
• The monthly hours of rest record summary reports for the previous three months showing each hours of rest
non-conformance.
• Communication with vessel operator relating to significant* hours of rest non-conformance.
• Log books and other records which will allow review of vessel activities over the previous three months.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure that defined how hours of rest were to be managed and recorded.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedure that defined how hours of rest were
to be managed and recorded and/or the process for recording and monitoring hours of rest and any non-
conformance.
• The hours of rest records were not in the ILO/MLC format which clearly identified the hours of rest
conformance in any twenty-four hour or seven-day period.
• Physically or digitally signed hours of rest records were not available for all crew members onboard which
had been approved by the Master or their authorised representative.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Reviewed of hours of rest records indicated that personnel had not completed the hours of rest records to
accurately reflect their work and rest hours.
• There was no evidence of hours of rest conformance/non-conformance calculations.
• There was no evidence that shore management was informed at least monthly of hours of rest conformance
levels on board.
• There was no evidence that the shore-based management had acknowledged significant levels of hours of
rest non-conformance.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
