## Question 3.4.2

**Paragraph Number:**
3.4.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and crew familiar with the company policy and
procedures for drug and alcohol abuse prevention and had unannounced drug and
alcohol testing taken place onboard in accordance with the policy?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
OCIMF: Guidelines for the Control of Drugs and Alcohol Onboard Ship. 1995.
IMO: STCW Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that no seafarer will navigate a ship or operate its onboard equipment whilst impaired by drugs or
alcohol.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
Sight, and where necessary review, the company policy and supporting procedures to prevent the abuse of drugs
and alcohol and verify that prior to the commencement of the inspection:
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The supply of alcohol had been managed and documented in accordance with company expectations.
• The onboard alcohol testing device had been calibrated and/or tested in accordance with the company
procedure and manufacturer’s instructions.
• Evidence was available that the persons required to use the onboard alcohol testing device had received
training in its use.
• Records were available to demonstrate that unannounced alcohol testing had been completed in
accordance with the company procedure and included;
o The initial instruction from the company,
o The documented breath test values for each individual tested,
o The message to the company confirming that the tests had been completed.
• Records were available to demonstrate that the frequency of the unannounced alcohol testing was in
accordance with the company procedure.
• Unannounced drug screening tests had been conducted in accordance with the frequency defined by the
company procedure by either onboard collection of samples for later analysis or by the attendance of an
independent agency.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company policy and supporting procedures to prevent the abuse of drugs and alcohol.
• Where alcohol was permitted onboard, the records of alcohol issue to onboard personnel and visitors.
• The alcohol breath testing device.
• The calibration or testing records for the alcohol breath testing device.
• Records, including results, of company initiated unannounced alcohol tests including initial instruction and
vessel advice that tests were complete.
• Records, including results and chain of custody documentation, for unannounced or “for cause” drug
screening either by the attendance of an independent agency or by the onboard collection of samples.
• The inventory of drug screening sample collection kits where required to be carried by the company
procedure.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company policy or supporting procedures for the prevention of abuse of drugs and alcohol.
• The company policy to prevent the abuse of drugs and alcohol was not prominently displayed at appropriate
locations onboard.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company policy or supporting procedures for the
prevention of abuse of drugs and alcohol.
• The accompanying officer or responsible individual was unfamiliar with the use and testing of the alcohol
breath testing device.
• The vessel did not have a breath testing device.
• The breath testing device was defective.
• The onboard supply of consumable test pieces was insufficient for the resupply period.
• The breath testing device had not been tested or calibrated in accordance with the company procedure or
manufacturer’s instructions.
• The onboard supply of alcohol had not been administered and/or documented in accordance with company
procedure.
• Records indicated that issue of alcohol had exceeded the permitted allowance to an individual on any single
day.
• Company initiated unannounced alcohol testing had not been completed at the frequency required by the
company procedure.
• The interval between company initiated unannounced alcohol tests was more than six months.
• The records of company initiated unannounced alcohol testing indicated that not all personnel onboard at
the time of the test had been tested or the tests had not been completed within the required timeframe.
• The records of unannounced drug screening indicated that samples had not been collected and analysed
from all persons onboard at the time of the screening.
• The records of unannounced drug screening indicated that the frequency of the screening was not in
accordance with the company procedure.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The interval between unannounced drug screenings was greater than twelve months.
• The vessel did not have the stipulated number of drug screening sample collection kits where these were
required by the company procedure.
• Where an incident had taken place, there were no records of post incident drug and alcohol tests having
taken place where required to be carried out by the company drug and alcohol abuse prevention policy.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
3.5. Crew Familiarisation
