## Question 3.5.1

**Paragraph Number:**
3.5.1

---

### **Question**
Had the company developed an effective familiarisation programme that covered
the personal safety and professional responsibilities of all onboard personnel, including
visitors and contractors, and were records available to demonstrate that the
familiarisation had been completed as required?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Anywhere
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all onboard personnel, including contractors and visitors, are fully familiarised with their
onboard duties, responsibilities and the equipment and machinery fitted to the vessel relevant to their role.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which defined the familiarisation process for
each role onboard, including visitors and contractors.
• Review the familiarisation records for the following, chosen at random, and verify that familiarisation was
conducted as required by the company procedure:
o One navigation/deck officer.
o One engineer officer.
o One specialist officer (ETO, Electrician, Gas/Cargo Engineer), where carried.
o One rating.
o One contractor or visitor.
o One individual who had been promoted onboard or changed roles, where this has occurred.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which defined the onboard familiarisation process for each role onboard, including
visitors and contractors.
• Records of completed familiarisation as follows:
For all individuals
• Essential Initial safety training necessary prior to sailing on joining, or upon taking over new safety related
assignments onboard.
• Onboard training in the use of ship’s lifesaving equipment, firefighting equipment and survival craft
completed within the first two weeks onboard.
For navigation/deck officers
• Familiarisation with the navigational equipment fitted onboard the vessel prior to taking over a navigational
watch.
• Familiarisation with the vessel’s cargo, ballast and mooring equipment before taking over a cargo watch.
For engineer officers
• Familiarisation with the main propulsion, manoeuvring, cargo and ballast management and power
generating equipment fitted onboard the vessel prior to undertaking scheduled duties.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
For specialist officers
• Familiarisation with the specialist equipment under their responsibility.
For contractors
• Familiarisation completed before any work was carried out onboard.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which defined the familiarisation process for onboard staff, contractors
and visitors.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company familiarisation procedure and/or processes.
• Familiarisation records, in accordance with the company procedure, were not available for any one of the
selected personnel.
• Evidence was available that contractors, as defined by company procedures, had worked onboard but there
was no documented record of their familiarisation prior to commencing work.
• The necessary familiarisation had not been carried out within the required time frame or prior to the
crewmember starting the first duty period utilising the equipment fitted to the vessel.
• The familiarisation process did not address the principal safety, environmental, navigation, cargo, mooring
and propulsion machinery and equipment fitted to the vessel relevant to an individual role.
• An officer or crew member demonstrated a poor understanding or familiarity with key equipment or systems
under their responsibility during the balance of the inspection - which resulted in an observation under
another question.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
