## Question 3.5.3

**Paragraph Number:**
3.5.3

---

### **Question**
Had the Master and navigation officers been familiarised with the ECDIS equipment
installed on board and were documented records of this familiarisation available?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge
Publications
Nautical Institute: Industry Recommendations for ECDIS Familiarisation
IMO: STCW.7/Circ.24 Training requirements for Electronic Chart Display and Information Systems (ECDIS) and
provision of the documentation for verification
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF: Recommendations on Usage of ECDIS and Preventing Incidents. First Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the Master and navigation officers are fully familiar with the specific type of ECDIS equipment
installed on board prior to taking charge of a navigational watch.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures that ensured the Master and all watchkeeping
officers are competent in the use of the type of ECDIS installed onboard prior to taking charge of a
navigational watch.
• Review the onboard ECDIS installation familiarisation checklists for the Master and deck officers.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the onboard ECDIS installation by selecting
at least two items from the onboard familiarisation checklist and requesting that they demonstrate the
required actions/knowledge.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures that ensured all watchkeeping officers are competent in the use of the onboard ECDIS
prior to taking charge of a navigational watch.
• ECDIS installation specific training certificates, where required by the company familiarisation process
• Onboard ECDIS installation specific familiarisation checklists for the Master and deck officers.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures that ensured all watchkeeping officers are competent in the use of the
onboard ECDIS prior to taking charge of a navigational watch, that included the:
o Time scale for the familiarisation.
o Method of familiarisation with the ECDIS equipment.
o Location of the familiarisation, on board or ashore.
o Identity of the appropriately trained crew or training personnel authorised to deliver the
familiarisation.
o Means of demonstrating competency upon completion of the familiarisation and before taking
charge of a navigational watch.
o Records to be maintained.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures that ensured that the Master and
all watchkeeping officers are competent in the use of the onboard ECDIS prior to taking charge of a
navigational watch.
• The accompanying officer was found to be unfamiliar with the onboard ECDIS installation through review of
items contained within the onboard ECDIS installation familiarisation checklist.
• The Master and/or deck officer(s) had not received approved training on ECDIS indicated by a limitation
being included on the certificate of competency and endorsements issued to the seafarer.
• The Master and/or deck officer(s) had not been familiarised with the ECDIS equipment installed on board in
accordance with company procedures.
• There were no records available, or records were incomplete, of the familiarisation of the Master and deck
officers with the ECDIS equipment installed on board.
• There was evidence that the Master or a deck officer had taken charge of a navigational watch prior to being
familiarised with the ECDIS equipment installed on board.
• The onboard ECDIS installation familiarisation checklist did not substantially cover the items included in the
familiarisation checklist included as an annex to the Nautical Institute paper “ECDIS - Industry
Recommendations for ECDIS Familiarisation”.
Do not give an observation if there is no Flag Administration approved ECDIS type specific training certificate
available.
4. Navigation and Communications
4.1. Navigation Equipment
