## Question 3.5.2

**Paragraph Number:**
3.5.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the ship’s lifesaving and fire
extinguishing appliances and, had ongoing onboard training and instruction taken place
to maintain familiarity?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Anywhere
Publications
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all crew can use the ship’s life- saving (LSA) and fire extinguishing (FFA) appliances in
accordance with the equipment manufacturer’s instructions to respond effectively to an emergency.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which defined the requirements for delivering
ongoing training and instruction in the use of LSA & FFA provided onboard.
• Review the list of LSA & FFA included in the onboard training and instruction program and verify that all
lifesaving appliances, including survival craft equipment, and firefighting appliances, including fixed
firefighting installations provided onboard were included.
• Sight a fire training manual, fire safety operational booklet and a lifesaving training manual and verify that
they were written in the working language of the ship and updated to include the equipment and appliances
provided onboard. (The fire training manual and fire safety operational booklet may be combined)
• Review the records of onboard training and instruction for the LSA & FFA and verify that training and
instruction had been provided to the crew for each item of FFA & LSA listed within two weeks of joining the
vessel and, then at intervals not exceeding two months thereafter.
• Where the vessel was provided with a davit-launched liferaft, review the instructions for delivering the
required onboard training and instruction, paying attention to any guidance on the use of a training liferaft,
where carried.
• Review the records of onboard training and instruction and verify that training and instruction in the use of
the davit-launched liferafts, where carried, had been undertaken within the previous four months.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• During the course of the inspection, request an officer or rating to describe the use, operation and safety
considerations of a nearby item of LSA or FFA and verify that they were familiar with the item selected.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• A fire training manual, fire safety operational booklet and lifesaving training manual.
• The company procedures defining the requirement for delivering ongoing training and instruction for the LSA
and FFA provided onboard.
• The instructions for delivering onboard training for the davit-launched liferaft and the use of a training liferaft,
where provided.
• The records of LSA and FFA training and instruction provided to the crew within two weeks of joining the
ship and at intervals not exceeding two months thereafter.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which defined the requirement for delivering and recording ongoing
training and instruction for each piece of LSA & FFA provided onboard.
• The fire training manual, fire safety operational booklet or lifesaving manuals were not written in the working
language of the ship.
• The fire training manual, fire safety operational booklet or lifesaving manual were not provided in each crew
mess room and recreation room, or in each crew cabin.
• The fire training manual, fire safety operational booklet or lifesaving manuals were not updated to reflect the
LSA & FFA provided onboard.
• The onboard training and instruction records did not include all items of LSA, including survival craft
equipment, and FFA, including fixed firefighting installations, provided onboard.
• There was no process to track that each crewmember had received training and instruction in each piece of
LSA & FFA carried onboard within the timeframes defined within SOLAS.
• Onboard training and instruction had not been completed for all crew within the timeframes defined by
SOLAS.
• Onboard training and instruction in the use of davit-launched liferafts, where carried, had not been
completed within the previous four months.
• There were no instructions available for the safe use of a “training liferaft”, where one was carried.
• The training liferaft, where carried, was not conspicuously marked as such.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for conducting and recording ongoing
training and instruction in the use of the ship’s LSA & FFA.
• An interviewed officer or rating was unfamiliar with the use, operation or safety considerations of any piece
of LSA or FFA provided onboard.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
