## Question 4.1.9

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.9

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures for
the use and testing of the navigation lights and shapes, and was there evidence that the
navigation lights had been tested to confirm full functionality and correct visibility?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: Resolution MSC.253(83) Adoption of the performance standards for navigation lights
navigation light controllers and associated equipment.
IMO: COLREG

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vessel always displays navigation lights & shapes in accordance with the International
Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which defined the checks and tests that were
required to be carried out on the navigation lights, navigation light controller and navigational shapes.
• Review the pre-departure, pre-arrival and daily navigational checklists and verify that navigation light checks
and tests had been completed as required by the company procedures.
• Request that the navigation officer demonstrates the functionality of the navigation light controller and
navigation lights.
• Review the inventory of spare navigation light lamps and verify that they conform to the manufacturer’s
specification and luminosity for each navigation light fitted to the vessel.
• Review the method of ensuring LED lamps, if fitted, are within their usable lifespan for luminous intensity.
• Where possible, and safe to do so from the deck of the vessel, sight individual navigational lights and verify
that the screens, lamps and lenses were in apparent good condition.
• Sight the navigational shapes and verify that they were in good condition.
• Sight the portable navigation lights, where carried, and verify that they were in good condition and
functioning.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which defined the checks and tests required to be carried out on the navigation
lights, navigation light controller and navigational shapes.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Checklists to confirm that the checks and tests required to be conducted on the navigation lights (fixed and
portable), navigation light controller and navigational shapes had been completed as required.
• The inventory of spare navigational lamps identifying the luminosity or wattage and the navigation lights to
which they may be fitted.
• Records of LED lamp usage and lifespan, where required.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure defining the checks and tests required to be carried out on the
navigational lights, the navigational light controller and navigational shapes.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for conducting checks and
tests on the navigation lights, the navigation light controller or navigational shapes.
• The navigation lights and navigation light controller had not been tested in accordance with the company
procedure.
• The navigation lights or navigation light controller were defective in any respect. (a single bulb failure on a
single light would not generate an observation).
• Navigation lights or their screens were damaged, relocated or obscured in such a way that the required
spacing and/or arc of visibility of any lights was apparently no longer in compliance with COLREG Annex 1
requirements.
• The required navigational shapes were not onboard or were in an unusable condition.
• Portable navigation lights, where required to be carried, were defective or not ready for rigging.
• The vessel did not have an inventory of spare lamps for each type and luminosity of navigation light fitted.
• The inventory of spare lamps did not conform to the navigation light manufacturer’s specifications. (incorrect
size, focal plane, luminosity, wattage or type).
• Procedures did not include guidance on the use of LED lamps, where fitted.
• There was no effective method of ensuring LED lamps were within their usable lifespan for luminous
intensity
• LED lamps were in use beyond the lifespan specified by the manufacturer or were in an alarm condition for
reduced luminous intensity.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
