## Question 4.1.10

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.10

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedure for
managing Marine Safety Information broadcasts by NAVTEX and SafetyNET and were
warnings affecting the vessel’s route plotted on the voyage charts?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS
IMO MSC.1/Circ. 1310/Rev.1 Revised Joint IMO/IHO/WMO Manual on Maritime Safety Information (MSI)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that broadcast navigation warnings affecting a vessel’s planned route are effectively managed.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for managing Marine Safety Information
received through NAVTEX and SafetyNET.
• Inspect the NAVTEX receiver and verify that it was correctly set to receive navigational warnings from
relevant coast radio stations.
• Review the messages received through the NAVTEX and verify they were reviewed upon receipt and, where
applicable to the vessel’s route, applied to the paper and / or electronic charts.
• Inspect the SafetyNET EGC receiver and verify that it was set up to receive Marine Safety Information
broadcasts for the correct NAVAREA and Coastal Warning Area.
• Verify that all current NAVAREA and Coastal Warning Area warnings were available onboard and, where
applicable to the vessel’s route, applied to the paper and/or electronic charts.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for managing Marine Safety Information received through NAVTEX and
SafetyNET.
• NAVTEX and SafetyNET broadcast warnings filed in accordance with company procedures.
• Paper and electronic charts showing charted Marine Safety Information warnings.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There was no company procedure for managing Marine Safety Information received through NAVTEX and
SafetyNET.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for managing Marine
Safety Information received through NAVTEX and SafetyNET, or the equipment fitted to the vessel.
• The NAVTEX and/or SafetyNET EGC receiver was defective in any respect.
• The NAVTEX receiver was not programmed to receive Marine Safety Information broadcasts from coast
radio stations appropriate to the vessel’s route.
• The SafetyNET EGC receiver was not programmed to receive Marine Safety Information broadcasts for
NAVAREAs and Coastal Warning Areas appropriate to the vessel’s route.
• The Marine Safety Information messages received through NAVTEX and SafetyNET had not been
acknowledged and filed in accordance with the company procedure.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
