## Question 4.1.14

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.14

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedure for
testing and using the daylight signalling lamp?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: Resolution MSC.95(72) Performance Standards for Daylight Signalling Lamps.
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that there is a means of attracting the attention of other vessels by visual means both during
daylight and during darkness.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the procedure which defined the company expectations when attracting
the attention of another vessel in a collision avoidance situation.
• Review that bridge equipment testing records and verify that the daylight signalling lamp had been
periodically tested in accordance with company expectations.
• Test the daylight signalling lamp on both battery and mains power and verify that the unit is fully functional.
• Check the availability of spare bulbs and verify that at least three spare bulbs are available that comply with
the manufacturer’s specifications.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The procedure which defined the company expectations for the use and testing of the daylight signalling
lamp.
• The bridge equipment testing records demonstrating that periodic tests had been carried out for the daylight
signalling lamp.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no procedure which defined the company expectations for the use and testing of the daylight
signalling lamp.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for the use and testing of
the daylight signalling lamp.
• The daylight signalling lamp was defective in any respect.
• There were less than three spare bulbs on board and/or the spare bulbs did not meet the manufacturer’s
specifications.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
