## Question 4.1.5

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedure for
the use of the Bridge Navigational Watch Alarm System (BNWAS) and were records
available to demonstrate that it had been operated and tested in accordance with the
procedure?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.128(75) Performance Standards for a Bridge Navigational Watch Alarm System (BNWAS)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the bridge was continually manned throughout a voyage, and at anchor, by vigilant
watchkeeping staff.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for operating and testing the Bridge Navigation
Watch Alarm System (BNWAS) fitted to the vessel.
• Review vessel records and verify that the BNWAS had been operated and tested in accordance with
company procedure.
• Request that the process for activating and deactivating the BNWAS is described or demonstrated.
• Verify that any tests required to confirm proper functioning of the BNWAS were understood by the
accompanying officer.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the use and testing of the BNWAS.
• Bridge Log Book.
• Bridge checklists.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for operating and testing the Bridge Navigation Watch Alarm System
(BNWAS) fitted to the vessel.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for the operation and
testing of the BNWAS.
• The BNWAS was defective in any respect.
• The password or activation key was available to others beyond the Master and their authorised deputy.
• There were no records available to confirm that the BNWAS had been in operation in accordance with
company procedures.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There were no records available to confirm that the BNWAS had been tested in accordance with company
procedures.
• There was evidence that modifications or adaptions designed to defeat the BNWAS were in use.
• Record a negative observation under the Process response tool if the vessel operator’s navigational
procedures did not require the BNWAS to be activated while the vessel was at anchor.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
