## Question 4.1.11

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.11

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedure for
preserving data from the VDR/S-VDR and were records available to demonstrate that
tests of the equipment had been completed as required?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
IMO: Resolution MSC.333(90) Adoption of Revised Performance Standards for Shipborne Voyage Data Recorders
(VDRs)
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF: Recommendations on the Proactive Use of Voyage Data Recorder Information (revised edition August 2020)
IMO: MSC.163(78) Recommendations on Performance Standards for Shipborne Simplified Data Recorders (S-VDRs)
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1222/Rev.1 14 June 2019 Guidelines on annual testing of voyage data recorders (VDR) and
simplified voyage data recorders (S-VDR)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the VDR fitted to the vessel is continually recording all required data streams and procedures
are in place to preserve records in the event of an incident.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which governed the setup, use and testing of
the VDR / S-VDR system fitted onboard the vessel.
• Verify that instructions for saving and preserving data were posted near the VDR / S-VDR controls.
• Verify that the annual performance testing of the VDR / S-VDR had been completed in accordance with
company procedure.
• Verify that the VDR / S-VDR had been tested as per maker's instruction after any upgrade, maintenance or
repair of the VDR / S-VDR itself.
• Verify that the VDR / S-VDR had been tested as per maker's instruction after any upgrade, maintenance or
repair of navigational or communications equipment providing data feeds.
• Verify that the data retention period for the long-term storage stated in the pre-inspection questionnaire was
correct.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which governed the setup, use and testing of the VDR / S-VDR system fitted
onboard the vessel.
• The company procedure that defined when data was required to be preserved to support investigations into
navigation and any other incidents onboard.
• At least one emergency response checklist from the vessel operator’s response plan indicating that VDR /
S-VDR data preservation was required.
• Records demonstrating that the VDR / S-VDR annual performance tests had been completed by an
approved testing or service facility.
• Records demonstrating that the VDR / S-VDR had been tested as per maker's instruction after any upgrade,
maintenance or repair of the VDR / S-VDR itself.
• Records demonstrating that the VDR / S-VDR had been tested as per maker's instruction after any upgrade,
maintenance or repair of navigational or communications equipment providing data feeds.
• Instructions posted near to the VDR / S-VDR recording controls on how to save event data to prevent it
being overwritten.
• The VDR / S-VDR specifications showing the period that data was retained onboard before being
overwritten.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedure which governed the setup, use and testing of the VDR / S-VDR system
fitted onboard the vessel.
• There was no company procedure which clearly defined the company expectation for data preservation in
the event of an incident onboard.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company procedures for VDR / S-VDR
management and data preservation.
• The VDR / S-VDR was defective in any respect.
• Annual performance checks by an authorised service agent or facility had not been carried out.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The VDR / S-VDR had not been tested as per maker's instruction after any upgrade, maintenance or repair
of the VDR / S-VDR itself.
• The VDR / S-VDR had not been tested as per maker's instruction after any upgrade, maintenance or repair
of navigational or communications equipment providing data feeds.
• The declaration made within the pre-inspection questionnaire relating to the VDR / S-VDR data retention
period was less than required.
o If installed before 1st July 2014, minimum 12 hours before being overwritten.
o If installed after 1st July 2014, minimum of 720 hours before being overwritten.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
