## Question 4.1.12

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.12

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures
relating to the magnetic and gyro compasses carried onboard, and were records
available to demonstrate their accuracy and reliability?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that standard, gyro and GNSS compasses and their heading output to navigational equipment are
accurate and reliable

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for standard, gyro and GNSS compass
management as applicable.
• Inspect the various compasses and repeaters and verify that the heading output is consistent, and
illumination is functional.
• Review the deviation card and compass error records and verify that the company expectation for compass
adjustment had been complied with.
• Review the service records for the gyro compass(s) and verify that servicing had been carried out in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for standard, gyro and GNSS compass management
• The standard compass adjustment and residual deviation certificate.
• Compass error records.
• Service records for the gyro compass(s).

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for managing the standard magnetic, gyro and GNSS compasses as
applicable.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company procedures, or the equipment fitted to
the vessel.
• A record of compass error for each compass fitted to the vessel was not maintained as required by the
company procedure.
• The compass error log book recorded a deviation of the standard magnetic compass consistently exceeding
the tolerance permitted by the company procedure as compared to the deviation certificate from the
previous official compass adjustment.
• The heading shown by a compass, or a repeater, was erroneous.
• Where required, manual speed and latitude corrections for a gyro compass were incorrectly set.
• A standard magnetic, gyro or GNSS compass was defective in any respect.
• The service records for a gyro compass indicated that periodic service was overdue by more than 5% of the
service interval.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
