## Question 4.1.2

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures for
managing and operating the radar/ARPA units fitted to the vessel, and were records
available to demonstrate that the units had been operated and tested in accordance with
company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the radar/ARPA units fitted to the vessel are used effectively for navigation and collision
avoidance.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for managing and operating the radar/ARPA
units fitted to the vessel.
• Where possible, review the ARPA alarm settings for CPA ,and BCR where fitted, and verify that they were
set in accordance with company procedures with the audible and visual alarms functioning.
• Where possible, review the process for programming individual, and sets of parallel index lines into the radar
and compare with the inbound passage plan to verify that the parallel indexing was used as indicated by the
passage plan.
• Review onboard records and verify that the radars/ARPAs were in operation in accordance with company
procedures and performance checks were conducted as required with satisfactory results.
• Review the heading, speed and positional inputs to each radar and/or ARPA and verify that the information
was consistent with the master equipment.
• Review the radar maintenance records and verify that the magnetrons for each radar had been changed in
accordance with the required schedule.
• Verify that the accompanying navigation officer was aware of the difference in performance between X-band
(9 GHz) and S-band (3 GHz) radars, particularly the impact of environmental conditions on the performance
of each type.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The company procedures for managing and operating the radar/ARPA units fitted to the vessel.
• Any checklists or quick reference charts for the operation of the radar/ARPA units fitted to the vessel.
• Onboard records demonstrating that the radar/ARPA units had been in operation and tested in accordance
with company procedures.
• Information relating to any blind sectors affecting the fitted radars.
• Onboard records relating to the routine changing of the magnetrons for each radar fitted.
• The parallel index information used for programming the radars for the previous passage.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for managing and operating the radar/ARPA units fitted to the vessel.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for managing and
operating the radar/ARPA units fitted to the vessel.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the hazards of using AIS data (vectors) for collision
avoidance.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the difference between the performance
characteristics of X-band (9 GHz) and S-band (3 GHz) radars.
• The radar/ARPA units had not been in operation in accordance with company procedures.
• The radar/ARPA units had not been tested in accordance with company procedures.
• The radar/ARPA units were defective in any respect.
• The heading, speed or positional feeds to the radar/ARPA units were inaccurate when compared to the
master devices.
• There was no indication of the scanner blind sectors affecting the radar coverage for each radar unit.
• The radar magnetrons had not been changed in accordance with the planned maintenance schedule.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
