## Question 4.1.1

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures for
the set up and operation of the ECDIS units fitted to the vessel and were records
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
available to demonstrate that the ECDIS had been operated in accordance with company
procedures at all stages of a voyage?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
OCIMF: Recommendations on Usage of ECDIS and Preventing Incidents. First Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that ECDIS units fitted to the vessel were used to effectively navigate the vessel.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for ECDIS operation and management.
• Review the company procedures to verify that the required safety settings meet industry standards.
• Review the setup of an ECDIS unit with the accompanying officer and verify that settings, alarms and
displays were in accordance with the provided checklists and quick reference guides.
• Review the alarm history, if available, and identify whether alarms were being generated that should have
been addressed through proper set up and passage planning.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Where the vessel is fitted with additional ECDIS, verify that all units have been set up in an identical manner.
• Review navigational records and confirm that there was a process in place to verify the ECDIS settings and
record the outcome periodically throughout the voyage.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures that defined how ECDIS units should be operated and managed.
• ECDIS checklists and quick reference guides.
• Records to demonstrate that software updates had been completed in accordance with manufacturer’s
instructions.
• Records to demonstrate periodic tests required by the manufacturer’s instructions had been completed.
• Records to demonstrate that the ECDIS settings had been checked periodically during each voyage.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for operating and managing the ECDIS fitted.
• The company procedures did not provide clear guidance regarding:
o Display management
o Alarms & warnings.
o Safety contours and depths.
o Safety frame or safety cone.
o Route checking.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company ECDIS management and operation
procedures.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the operation of the ECDIS units fitted to the vessel
• An ECDIS unit was defective in any respect. (Where the vessel carried an additional ECDIS in excess of the
ECDIS carriage requirements then record as a comment providing an entry had been made in the defect
reporting system. Indicate the number of ECDIS required to be carried and the total fitted onboard.)
• The second ECDIS, where required to be fitted, was not set up as a backup unit.
• There was evidence that ECDIS settings had been incorrectly entered at any stage of a voyage.
• There was no indication in the passage plan regarding required changes to ECDIS settings.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
