## Question 4.1.15

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.15

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures for
the use and testing of the sound signalling equipment fitted to the vessel and were
records available to confirm that periodic tests had been completed and the equipment
used in accordance with company expectations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: COLREG

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vessel was able to make sound signals to comply with the International Regulations for
Preventing Collisions at Sea (COLREG).

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which defined the expected use and testing of
the sound signalling equipment fitted to the vessel.
• Review the bridge equipment testing records and verify that periodic tests had been completed to confirm
the functionality of whistles, bells and gongs and, their automation, to conform to the requirements of the
COLREGs.
• Review the Bridge Log Book and/or checklists for restricted visibility (BPG checklist B13 or equivalent) to
identify any recent period of restricted visibility whilst the vessel was underway or at anchor and verify that
sound signals were recorded as being sounded as required by the COLREGs.
The inspector will only be required to look back through records for the previous month to confirm that sound signals
had been made during restricted visibility.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which defined the expectations for the use and testing of sound signalling
equipment fitted to the vessel.
• Bridge Log Book.
• Completed bridge checklists including restricted visibility and bridge equipment testing.
The accompanying officer should be ready to show the inspector the evidence for the previous three occasions where
the sound signalling equipment was used during restricted visibility.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which defined the company expectation for the use of sound signals
during restricted visibility, collision avoidance and manoeuvring in compliance with the COLREGs.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company expectation for the use of sound
signals during restricted visibility, collision avoidance and manoeuvring in compliance with the COLREGs.
• There were no records available to demonstrate that the sound signalling equipment and any automation
provided had been periodically tested to verify its effectiveness and compliance with the COLREGs.
• The sound signalling equipment, or its automation, was defective in any way.
• There was no documented evidence that the sound signalling equipment had been used in accordance with
the COLREGs during periods of restricted visibility.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
4.2. Navigational Procedures
