## Question 4.1.4

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures for
using the Automatic Identification System (AIS) fitted to the vessel and were records
available to confirm that periodic checks and tests had been carried out in accordance
with the procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO Resolution A.1106(29) Revised Guidelines for the Onboard Operational use of Shipborne Automatic
Identification Systems (AIS)
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the Automatic Identification System (AIS) fitted to the vessel was used to safely enhance
situational awareness during navigation.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation and testing of the AIS
equipment fitted onboard.
• Review checklists and records to verify that testing of the AIS system had been carried out in accordance
with the company procedure.
• Verify that the navigational data feeds provided to the AIS were consistent with the output from the master
equipment for heading, speed and position.
• Confirm that the vessel static data was correctly entered in the unit.
• Determine whether AIS data was transferred to the ARPA for display and verify that the vessel operator
provided guidance relating to the use of AIS data for collision avoidance.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for the operation and testing of the AIS equipment fitted onboard.
• Records of the checks and performance tests required to be carried out on the AIS equipment fitted.
• Company guidance related to the use of AIS information in collision avoidance situations.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no procedures for the operation and testing of the AIS system fitted onboard.
• There was no company guidance related to the use of AIS information in collision avoidance situations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company procedures for the operation and
testing of the AIS system fitted onboard
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company guidance related to the use of AIS
information in collision avoidance situations.
• There were no records of the checks and performance tests required to be carried out on the AIS equipment
fitted.
• The AIS unit was defective in any respect.
• There was as an error in the navigational data feeds to the AIS unit.
• The vessel static data was incorrectly entered in the AIS unit.
• While alongside a terminal or port area where hydrocarbon gases may be present, the AIS was not switched
off, or the aerial isolated and the AIS given a dummy load (unless at the request of the shore authorities).
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
