## Question 4.1.8

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.8

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures for
the operation and testing of the speed and distance measuring devices fitted to the
vessel and were records available to demonstrate that periodic tests had been completed
as required by the procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that accurate speed data is available to navigational equipment.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation and testing of the speed and
distance measuring devices fitted to the vessel.
• Verify that the speed outputs from the speed and distance measuring devices were being correctly displayed
at each remote display.
• Verify that the water speed displayed by the ARPA & ECDIS units was consistent with the output from the
water speed log.
• Where a dual axis doppler log was fitted, verify that the ground speed displayed by the ECDIS units was
consistent with output from the dual axis log.
• Verify that function and performance checks required by the company procedures had been completed as
required.
• Verify that operational verification checks for the speed input to ARPA, AIS and ECDIS had been completed
as required by the company procedures.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation and testing of the speed and distance measuring devices fitted to
the vessel.
• Records of the periodic accuracy and function tests for the speed and distance measuring devices fitted to
the vessel.
• Records of periodic verification that the speed input to navigational equipment such as ARPA, AIS and
ECDIS was accurate.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for the operation and testing of the speed and distance measuring
devices fitted to the vessel.
• The accompanying navigation officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation and
testing of the speed and distance measuring devices fitted to the vessel.
• Periodic tests to verify the accuracy and/functionality of the speed and distance measuring devices fitted to
the vessel required by the company procedures had not been completed as required.
• Periodic checks to verify the accuracy of the speed input to navigational equipment had not been completed
in accordance with company procedures.
• The speed values displayed by remote display units and ARPA, AIS or ECDIS units were inconsistent with
the master water speed and or dual axis logs as appropriate.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• A speed and distance measuring device fitted to the vessel was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
