## Question 4.1.7

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.7

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures for
operating and managing the echo sounder and were records maintained to demonstrate
that the equipment fitted to the vessel had been tested and operated in accordance with
the company expectations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the echo sounder is used effectively to monitor the under-keel clearance.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for managing and operating the echo sounder
and its associated recording device(s).
• Review a recent passage and verify that the echo sounder and its recording device were in use in
accordance with company procedures.
• Review the depth alarm setting and verify that it was in accordance with company procedures for the time of
the inspection or while manoeuvring to the berth.
• Review onboard records and confirm that the accuracy of the echo sounder had been confirmed by periodic
comparison in accordance with company procedures.
• Request that the accompanying navigation officer demonstrate that the echo sounder is showing the
expected depth indication under the keel at the time of the inspection.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for managing and operating the echo sounder and its associated recording
device.
• Onboard records demonstrating that the echo sounder and its recording device were in operation as
required by the company procedures.
• Onboard records demonstrating that the accuracy of the echo sounder had been verified.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no procedures for managing and operating the echo sounder and its associated recording
device.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company procedures for managing and
operating the echo sounder and its associated recording device.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the process to calculate the depth under the keel
and verify the accuracy of the echo sounder.
• The echo sounder had not been operated or tested in accordance with the company procedures and
manufacturer’s instructions.
• The echo sounder was not showing the expected depth indication under the keel at the time of the
inspection.
• The echo sounder or recording device was defective in any respect.
• The echo sounder depth alarm had not been set in accordance with the company procedures.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
