## Question 4.1.6

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures
governing the management and operation of the Global Navigation Satellite System
(GNSS) receivers fitted onboard and was the fitted equipment configured, used and
checked in accordance with the procedure?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) receivers provide reliable and accurate positional
information.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS)
receiver operation and management
• Review the configuration of the GNSS receivers and verify that the settings were in accordance with the
company procedures.
• Verify that the antenna offset data was available and had been correctly entered in the GNSS receiver
configuration.
• Verify that the GNSS receiver(s) had been set to WGS84 datum.
• Review onboard records to confirm that periodic checks and tests required to be carried out to the GNSS
receivers had been completed as required.
• Verify that the GNSS position feed to two or more navigational systems was correct.
• Verify that onboard instructions were posted for any GNSS receiver output inter-switch arrangements.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure that defined how GNSS units should be operated and managed
• Onboard records to demonstrate that the required checks and tests had been completed
• The measurements to allow the checking / reprogramming of the antenna offset position in the GNSS
receiver configuration.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for operating and managing the GNSS receivers fitted.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the GNSS receiver management and operation
procedures, or the equipment fitted to the vessel.
• The GNSS receiver(s) were not configured in accordance with company requirements, or the antennae
coordinates were incorrectly entered.
• Periodic checks and tests had not been carried out in accordance with procedures.
• A GNSS receiver was defective in any respect.
• The positional data provided to another piece of navigation or communication equipment such as AIS, ARPA
or a GMDSS transceiver was erroneous.
• The vessel was not fitted with a GNSS receiver, in which case comment on what alternative terrestrial
navigation system was fitted.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
