## Question 4.1.3

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures for
operating and testing the steering control systems fitted to the vessel and were records
available to demonstrate that operation and testing had been carried out in accordance
with the procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 33.
IMO SOLAS
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the steering control systems fitted to the vessel are tested and used in an appropriate manner with
changeover procedures understood.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where required review, the company procedure for managing, testing and operating the steering
control systems provided.
• Review the records for the testing of the steering control systems provided and verify that all steering modes
had been tested from each location, as appropriate, in accordance with the company procedure.
• Confirm that the procedure for changing over steering control systems and operating the emergency
steering system were available and posted on the bridge, including the block diagram required.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for managing, testing and operating the steering control systems provided.
• The vessel specific procedures for changing between steering control modes and systems.
• The vessel specific procedure for changing over to emergency steering control.
• The block diagram showing the change-over procedures for remote steering gear control systems and
steering gear power units.
• Records for a recent voyage to demonstrate that steering control system tests had been completed in
accordance with company procedures.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for managing, testing and operating steering control systems fitted to the
vessel.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for managing, testing and
operating the steering control systems fitted to the vessel.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the changeover procedure between modes of
steering control or action to take when steering system alarms activate.
• Simple operating instructions with a block diagram showing the change-over procedures for remote steering
gear control systems and steering gear power units were not permanently displayed on the navigation
bridge
• The steering control systems had not been operated or tested in accordance with the company procedure.
• The steering control systems were defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
