## Question 4.1.13

**Paragraph Number:**
4.1.13

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures for
the operation and testing of the VHF/DSC transceivers fitted to the vessel, and were
records available to demonstrate that periodic tests and checks had been completed in
accordance with company expectations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
IMO: MSC.131 (75) Maintenance of a continuous listening watch on VHF channel 16 by SOLAS ships whilst at sea
IMO: Resolution A.954 (23). Proper use of VHF Channels at Sea
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that VHF radio is used to enhance navigation safety and support the obligations of the vessel
under SOLAS to render assistance to non-SOLAS vessels in distress.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the use and operation of the VHF/DSC
equipment fitted to the vessel.
• Review the records for the testing of the VHF/DSC equipment and verify that the equipment was tested and
found functional in accordance with company expectations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Review the GMDSS Radio Log Book or other operational records for the previous voyage and verify that the
appropriate VHF channels were being monitored and records were being maintained of all significant
communications as defined by the company procedure.
• Review the data inputs to the VHF/DSC equipment and verify that the static data was correctly programmed,
and the dynamic data was being correctly received from external feeds.
• Interview the accompanying navigation officer to verify their understanding of the company procedure and
Master’s standing orders relating to the use of VHF radio in collision avoidance situations.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the use and operation of the VHF/DSC equipment fitted to the vessel.
• The GMDSS Radio Log Book or other records which documented which VHF channels were being
monitored and details of significant communications.
• The Master’s standing orders.
• Checklists that demonstrated that periodic checks and tests required to be carried out on the
communications equipment, including VHF/DSC units had been completed as required by the company
procedures.
• Where the vessel was fitted with multiple VHF units which were not all connected to the VDR, clear
identification of the units not connected, with instructions on their use for significant communications.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which defined the expectations for the use and periodic testing of the
VHF/DSC units fitted to the vessel.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for the use or testing of the
VHF/DSC units fitted to the vessel.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the operation of the VHF/DSC units fitted to the
vessel.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the hazards and limitations of using VHF radio
during collision avoidance situations.
• Records indicated that periodic checks and tests required to be carried out for the VHF/DSC units had not
been completed as required by the company procedure.
• Records indicated that details of critical communications had not been documented as required by company
procedures.
• Records indicated that the vessel had not been monitoring the correct VHF channels as required by SOLAS,
company expectations and as identified within the passage plan.
• The VHF and/or DSC units fitted to the vessel were defective in any respect.
• The static and/or dynamic data displayed by the VHF and/or DSC units were inaccurate.
• Where multiple VHF units were fitted on the bridge which were not all connected to the VDR, there was no
indication of which units were connected and no instructions restricting the use of non-connected units for
critical communications.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
