## Question 4.2.7

**Paragraph Number:**
4.2.7

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedure for
the carriage and management of nautical publications and was evidence available to
demonstrate that publications had been managed in accordance with the procedure?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS
UK Admiralty: Guidance on the Use of ADMIRALTY Digital Publications (ADP) and ADMIRALTY e-Nautical
Publications (e-NPs)
IMO: MSC-MEPC.2/Circ.2 IMO requirements on carriage of publications on board ships

---

### **Objective**
To ensure nautical publications used for navigational purposes provide the most accurate information
available.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for managing, ordering and updating nautical
publications.
• Verify that the company procedure had defined which nautical publications were required to be carried,
whether in hard or electronic form, and identified both mandatory and discretionary titles.
• Review the onboard nautical publication management system and verify that latest editions of nautical
publications were available on board and that they had been maintained up to date.
• Verify that nautical publications carried in the electronic format required to comply with SOLAS Regulation
27 were acceptable to the flag and that the required back up provision were in place. (as indicated on the
Safety Equipment Certificate Form E).
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Verify that nautical publications required to be carried in hard copy, such as the International Code of
Signals and the IAMSAR Manual, were onboard.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The nautical publications.
• The company procedure for managing, ordering and updating nautical publications.
• The inventory of nautical publications indicating their edition date and latest correction applied, where
applicable.
• Where electronic publications were carried to comply with SOLAS Chapter V Regulation 27, evidence that
the publications were approved by flag and the means of back up were in accordance with the Safety
Equipment Certificate Form E)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for managing, ordering and updating nautical publications.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for managing, ordering
and updating nautical publications.
• There was no inventory of mandatory and discretionary nautical publications required to be carried.
• Nautical publications required to be carried, in either electronic or hard copy, in accordance with the
company procedure were found to be missing, obsolete or uncorrected.
• Where electronic nautical publications were carried, there was no evidence that the publications were
approved by flag or that the required back up publications were available and maintained as required.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
4.3. Bridge and Machinery Space Team Management
