## Question 4.2.4

**Paragraph Number:**
4.2.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company electronic chart
management procedures and were onboard ENCs and RNCs managed, corrected and
used appropriately?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS
IHO: Information on IHO Standards related to ENC and ECDIS (Ver 2.1 Feb 2020)
UKHO: Guide to ECDIS audits and inspections
OCIMF: Recommendations on Usage of ECDIS and Preventing Incidents. First Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that only fully corrected official electronic charts are used for navigation where ECDIS is required
to be carried

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Confirm the primary means of navigation as declared in the pre-inspection questionnaire was correctly
stated.
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for managing, ordering and updating ENCs and
RNCs.
• Review the onboard electronic chart management system for ENC and RNC and verify that the charts
required for the previous voyage were available and permitted for use on each ECDIS.
• Verify that where RNCs had been used;
o The ECDIS had been used in RCDS mode.
o That ENCs were not available for the area.
o That fully corrected paper charts were also available and in use.
• Review the chart update records and verify that each ENC and RNC in use for navigation had been
maintained up to date to the most recently published Notices to Mariners, including T&P corrections.
• Review an individual ENC or RNC from the previous voyage which was identified as being affected by a
T&P correction and verify that the correction was shown in the appropriate location.
• Request the accompanying officer to demonstrate how T&P notices were applied:
o Manually.
o By use of an overlay.
o Incorporated as part of the update of the ENC database. (CAES and CEES S93 charts)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure that defined how ENCs and RNCs were to be managed
• The onboard records identifying which ENCs and RNCs were active with current permits or were available
on a Pay As You Sail (PAYS) basis.
• ENC Status Report, where available.
• The previous voyage passage plan records showing which ENCs and RNCs had been used.
• Where ENC coverage was incomplete for a recent voyage, passage planning records demonstrating how
the gap in coverage was addressed.
• Records demonstrating that ENCs and RNCs had been corrected to the latest notice to mariners, including
the application of T&P notices.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for managing ENCs and RNCs
• The declaration relating to the primary means of navigation was incorrect
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the electronic chart management and correction
procedures.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the process for applying T&P notices to ENCs and
RNCs.
• There was no onboard management system to track the permits held by the vessel for ENCs and RNCs.
• Individual ENC or RNC permits had expired prior to or during the predicted phase of a voyage.
• The vessel had completed a voyage with missing ENC or RNC coverage.
• The vessel had not updated the ENCs and RNCs to the latest available notice to mariners (subject to a
reasonable allowance for vessel activities and workload).
• A vessel had completed a part of a voyage with RNCs when ENCs were available for the area in question.
• The vessels had operated in RCDS mode without availability of an appropriate folio of up to date paper
charts.
• There was no onboard management system to track Notices to Mariners corrections applied to ENCs and
RNCs.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
Where a vessel was less than 3,000 gt and was not fitted with an ECDIS select “Not Answerable” in each of the
response tools then select "Not Applicable - as instructed by question guidance".
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
