## Question 4.2.2

**Paragraph Number:**
4.2.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company under keel
clearance (UKC) policy and procedure, and were records available to demonstrate that
the required calculations had been completed at the appropriate points during each
voyage and the vessel had remained in compliance with the UKC policy?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: Resolution A.893(21) Guidelines for Voyage Planning
OCIMF: Recommendations on Usage of ECDIS and Preventing Incidents. First Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vessel always maintains a safe under keel clearance.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the company under keel clearance (UKC) policy and procedure and verify that the values uploaded
to the pre-inspection questionnaire were accurate.
• Review the UKC calculations for a recent voyage and verify that all factors required to be considered by the
company procedure had been included in the calculation and evaluation and that the resulting UKC
complied with company expectations.
• Review the voyage records, including echo sounder printer or electronic records, for the same voyage and
verify that the calculations were completed for the time that the vessel passed over the critical hydrographic
features.
• Review a recent Master/Pilot information exchange checklist and verify that the UKC information had been
recorded in accordance with company expectations.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure that defined the company under keel clearance (UKC) policy and the requirement
for conducting calculations and recording the results.
• The passage planning documentation for recent voyages.
• The UKC calculation documentation to support recent voyages.
• Master/Pilot information exchange documentation which included the supporting UKC calculations.
• Bridge Log Books, bell books, echo sounder records and charted passage history to permit verification of
the time of passing critical hydrographic features.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no procedure defining the company under keel clearance (UKC) policy and expectations for
conducting UKC calculations at defined stages of the voyage.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedure for conducting and documenting
UKC calculations.
• Review of records indicated that the UKC calculations required to be carried out by the company procedures
had not been completed.
• Review of records indicated that the UKC policy had been violated without explicit permission from the
vessel operator.
• Review of sample calculations indicated that they had not been carried out for the predicted time of passing
a critical hydrographic feature as set out in the passage plan.
• Review of sample calculations indicated that the speed used for calculation had been exceeded by more
than 10% when actually passing the critical hydrographic feature.
• Review of sample calculations determined that an error had been made in either the source data or resulting
calculation when passing a critical hydrographic feature.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There was no evidence that UKC calculations had been reviewed during the Master/Pilot information
exchange.
• Squat information relevant to the vessel for both loaded and ballast passages was not readily available on
the bridge.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
