## Question 4.2.5

**Paragraph Number:**
4.2.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company paper chart
management procedures and were onboard paper charts managed, corrected and used
appropriately?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the only fully corrected official paper charts are used for navigation when required to be
carried or used.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for paper chart management.
• Review the paper chart portfolio records and verify that all paper charts onboard were listed with their edition
date.
• Review a recent passage plan and verify that paper charts used for the voyage were fully corrected by spot
sampling at least two charts.
• Verify that applicable T&P corrections and NAVTEX and NAVAREA warnings had been applied to the paper
charts used and that a system existed to remove them once they were cancelled.
• Verify that all paper charts, including the largest scale charts applicable to the passage reviewed, were
available onboard and had been used for navigation.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for paper chart management.
• The paper chart portfolio records.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The paper chart correction records.
• Recent passage plan records showing which paper charts had been used.
• The paper charts, where applicable, used on the previous passage
• Communications and mitigation plan agreed with the company where a vessel had been directed to a port
and the required paper charts were not onboard, if available.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for managing paper charts.
• The accompanying navigation officer was unfamiliar with the paper chart management and correction
procedures.
• The vessel had completed a voyage with missing or inappropriate scale charts without any evidence that the
company had been involved in identifying mitigating actions.
• There was no systematic process to apply and remove T&P notices and NAVTEX and NAVAREA warnings.
• The vessel had not updated voyage paper charts to the latest available Notice to Mariners (subject to a
reasonable allowance for vessel activities and workload) or had used outdated editions.
• Paper charts in use were torn, stained or worn such that detail was likely to be obscured from the user.
Where the vessel is fitted with ECDIS as both the primary and back up means of navigation chart provision, and no
paper charts at all are carried, then select “Not Answerable” in each of the response tools then select "Not Applicable
- as instructed by question guidance".
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
