## Question 4.2.3

**Paragraph Number:**
4.2.3

---

### **Question**
Had the Master prepared Master's Standing Orders, supplemented by Daily Orders,
which emphasised and reinforced the company expectations with regards to navigational
requirements including restricted visibility, CPA/BCR and minimum passing distance
from navigational dangers and navigational aids and, if so, had all navigation officers
signed to acknowledge their understanding of the same?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: STCW Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all deck/navigating officers are aware of the key expectations of both the company and the
Master with respect to the navigation of the vessel.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which defined the requirement for the Master to
prepare Master's Standing Orders and Daily Orders
• Review the Master’s Standing Orders and verify that:
o They included the content defined by the company procedure.
o They defined what constituted restricted visibility.
o They defined the minimum CPA and BCR permitted during normal* navigational watches.
o They defined the minimum passing distance from navigational dangers and / or navigational
hazards during normal* navigational watches.
o They defined how the alarms and layers for use with ECDIS/ECS are required to be set and
checked, and in what circumstances they can be changed.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o They contained guidance on the hazards and limitations of reliance on AIS and VHF in collision
avoidance situations.
o They defined the circumstances in which the Master must be called.
o They defined the process by which the Master would take over the con on the vessel.
o They had been signed and dated by the existing Master upon being assigned to the vessel, or at
later revision.
o They had been signed by each navigation officer on joining the vessel and before taking any
navigational duties.
• Review the Bridge Order Book and verify that:
o Entries had been made by the Master at least daily.
o Information was entered which was consistent with the operation and voyage of the vessel such as
preparations for approaching critical areas due to piracy concerns, fishing vessel activity, increased
traffic density or expected deteriorations in weather conditions.
o Each entry had been dated, timed and signed by the Master.
o The entries had been signed for understanding by each navigation officer prior to taking their
watch.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure defining the requirement for the Master to develop their own Standing and Daily
Orders.
• The Master’s Standing Orders signed by the Master and all navigation officers.
• The Bridge Order Book with each dated and timed entry signed by the Master, and subsequently, each
OOW before taking over their watch.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no procedure which required the Master to prepare Standing or Daily Orders.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the content of the Master’s Standing or Daily Orders.
• The Master had not prepared their own Standing Orders which were signed and dated on being assigned to
the vessel or at subsequent update.
• The navigation officers onboard at the time of the inspection had not signed the Master's Standing Orders
(unless they had only joined that day).
• The content of the Master’s Standing Orders degraded the company expectations documented anywhere
within the Safety Management System.
• The content of the Master's Daily Orders degraded the company expectations documented anywhere within
the Safety Management System.
• The Standing Orders did not define the Master’s expectations in respect of:
•
o What was considered to be restricted visibility and the actions to take on encountering it.
o Minimum CPA/BCR permitted during normal* navigational watches.
o Minimum passing distances from navigational dangers and/or navigational aids during normal*
navigational watches.
o How the alarms and layers for use with ECDIS/ECS were required to be set, checked and in what
circumstances they may be changed
o Calling the Master.
o The process for the Master to formally take the con of the vessel from the officer of the watch.
o The hazards and limitations of reliance on AIS and VHF in collision avoidance situations.
• The Master had not prepared Daily Orders which were signed, dated and timed, to supplement their
Standing Orders.
• The Master’s Daily Orders did not address the navigational concerns or preparations relevant to the period
under review.
• An OOW had not signed the Master’s Daily Orders for understanding.
• Review of any onboard records indicated that instructions contained within the Master’s Standing or Daily
Orders had not been followed.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
