## Question 4.2.6

**Paragraph Number:**
4.2.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures for
testing the navigational equipment, main propulsion, steering gear and thrusters prior to
use and prior to critical phases of a passage or operation and, did checklists or logbook
entries confirm the required tests had been completed as required?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 33.
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that navigational equipment and manoeuvring machinery is confirmed as fully operational prior to
critical phases of a passage or operation.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary, review the company procedures which defined the requirement for testing
navigational and manoeuvring equipment.
• Verify that the vessel operator had provided vessel specific checklists to address the following:
o Steering Gear Test Routines (modelled on BPG B1 and supporting notes).
o Preparations for Sea (modelled on BPG B6 and supporting notes).
o Preparations for Arrival (modelled on BPG B7 and supporting notes).
• Review completed checklists for the testing of navigational equipment and manoeuvring machinery to verify
that testing during a recent passage or, sequence of operations, had been performed in accordance with the
company procedures.
• Verify that where a vessel was operating under an administrative waiver to conduct steering gear tests on a
weekly basis, rather that prior to each departure, that the waiver was available onboard.
• Verify that any defects, detected in either navigational equipment or manoeuvring machinery during the
required testing processes, had been followed up through the onboard defect reporting system.
• Review an individual checklist with the accompanying navigation officer to verify that they were familiar with
individual checks or tests that were required to be carried out.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which defined the requirements for testing navigational equipment and
manoeuvring machinery.
• Completed checklists for the testing of navigational equipment and manoeuvring machinery for recent
voyages.
• Bridge Log Book.
• Engine Log Book.
• Any waivers issued by the Flag Administration relating to the periodicity of steering gear tests for vessels on
short voyages.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no procedure that required navigational equipment and manoeuvring equipment to be
functionally tested at defined points prior to and during a voyage or operation.
• The accompanying navigation officer was not familiar with the company procedures for testing navigational
equipment and manoeuvring equipment.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with any check or test required to be carried out according to the
company navigational and manoeuvring equipment checklist(s).
• There was no evidence that the timing of the rudder movement from hard-over to hard-over, using each
steering gear power unit singly and together, had been checked to ensure consistency with previous tests
and the manufacturer’s specification.
• Tests required to be carried out by the company procedure had not been completed as required.
• There was no evidence that the governing administration had issued an appropriate waiver for a vessel on
frequent voyages of short duration, where tests were not being carried out within 12 hours prior to departure.
• Defects with navigational equipment and manoeuvring machinery identified through the testing process,
which could not be immediately corrected by onboard staff, had not been entered into the vessel’s defect
reporting system.
Where a defect(s) with an item of navigational and/or manoeuvring equipment had been identified during these tests
but had NOT been rectified at the time of inspection:
• Create a negative observation in the Hardware response tool for this question 4.2.6, and
• Create a negative observation in the Hardware response tool of the question relating to the particular
equipment if it is included in the CVIQ for the inspection.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
