## Question 4.2.1

**Paragraph Number:**
4.2.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigating officers familiar with the company passage
planning procedures and had all voyages been appraised, planned, executed and
monitored in accordance with company procedures, industry best practice and both
local and international rules?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF: Recommendations on Usage of ECDIS and Preventing Incidents. First Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that passages are planned and executed from berth to berth in accordance with international/local
rules and industry best practice guidance.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company passage planning procedure.
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company record keeping procedures as they relate to navigational
activities.
• Review a recent passage plan and verify that it was in the format defined by the company passage planning
procedure and contained, as a minimum, the information identified by the company procedure.
• Review the same passage plan on the paper and/or electronic charts and verify that the information required
to be displayed in accordance with the company passage planning procedure had been included.
• Review the records for the same passage and verify that the records maintained contained the information
required to be recorded in accordance with the company passage planning procedure.
• Verify that where two ECDIS units are fitted, both units had been loaded with the passage plan.
• Verify that route checking and scanning had been carried out utilising the ECDIS route checking function or
in the case of paper charts, manually, prior to commencing a voyage and at any time changes had been
made to the approved plan.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Verify that a passage plan briefing had been attended by the Master, all navigation officers and a member of
the engineering department prior to commencing a voyage or, prior to each significant portion of a voyage.
When reviewing the frequency of manually applied position fixing on an ECDIS equipped vessel, be guided by the
frequency defined by the vessel operator within their navigation procedures.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company passage planning procedures.
• The company record keeping procedures relating to navigational activities.
• The company passage plan appraisal form / checklist for a recently completed voyage.
• The passage plan for a recently completed voyage approved by the Master and signed by the navigation
officers.
• The ECDIS passage planning station and/or paper charts showing the reviewed passage plan and
monitoring history.
• The Bridge Log Book, movement book and other records documenting the progress of the voyage.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company passage planning procedures.
• There were no company record keeping procedures relating to navigational activities.
• The accompanying navigation officer was not familiar with the company passage planning or navigational
record keeping procedures.
• There was no standard passage planning form which required the passage plan to be documented in a
consistent manner, capturing all data identified within the procedures.
• There was no passage plan appraisal form / checklist to verify that all information pertinent to the passage
had been considered.
• The passage was planned or executed in clear contravention to collision regulations, company navigation
procedures or guidance provided on the charts, routing guides or sailing directions.
• The charted passage plan did not include all pertinent information required to be displayed in accordance
with the company procedures.
• The passage plan was not reviewed and approved in accordance with company procedures.
• Route checking and scanning had not been conducted prior to commencing a voyage or when a planned
voyage had been changed or updated.
• The passage plan was not substantially followed, such as passing an island or navigational mark on the
unplanned side, unless the passage plan identified alternative routes for contingency use.
• The vessel’s position was not manually fixed in accordance with company navigational procedures and the
planned position fixing method and interval.
• Records of the progress of a voyage had not been maintained in accordance with company procedures.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
