## Question 4.3.1

**Paragraph Number:**
4.3.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures
defining the minimum bridge team composition and engine room operating mode and
were records available to demonstrate that recent voyages had been planned and
executed in accordance with company expectations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the bridge team is adequately resourced, and the machinery space operated appropriately at
all stages of a voyage including while at anchor, conducting STS operations or drifting.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which define the bridge and machinery space
team compositions.
• Review a recent passage plan and verify that the anticipated changes in bridge team composition and
machinery space operating status had been identified and documented in alignment with the company
procedure.
• Review the records for the same voyage and verify;
o That the bridge team composition and machinery space operating mode had been maintained in
accordance with the passage plan.
o That the helm had been operated in manual mode in accordance with company procedures.
o That the bridge team composition had been adapted to address changes in visibility or other
environmental conditions.
o The actual bridge team composition at any stage of the voyage was appropriate to the proximity of
the vessel to navigational hazards, traffic density weather conditions, and state of visibility.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure(s) that defined bridge team composition and machinery space operating mode
during all stages of a voyage .
• Passage plan documentation for recent voyages, (not necessarily the last voyage).
• Bridge Log Book, bell books, bridge checklists and any other supporting bridge records, either paper or
electronic,

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There was no procedure defining the required bridge team composition during all stages of a voyage,
including while at anchor, drifting, or conducting “at sea” STS operations, DP operations or underway
storing/personnel transfer operations, considering traffic density, proximity to navigational hazards, weather
conditions and visibility.
• There was no procedure defining the engine room status, and when required to be manned the engine room
team composition, during all stages of a voyage including while at anchor or drifting, or conducting “at sea”
STS operations, DP operations or underway storing/personnel transfer operations, considering traffic
density, proximity to navigational hazards, weather conditions and visibility.
• The accompanying navigation officer was not familiar with the company procedures which defined the
required bridge team composition and engine room operating mode at all stages of the voyage.
• The company procedure was ambiguous with regards to the need for hand steering in any defined watch
composition.
• The passage plan did not identify the required bridge team composition for all stages of a voyage.
• The passage plan did not identify the required engine room operating mode for all stages of a voyage.
• The reviewed passage plan(s) incorrectly identified the required bridge team composition or machinery
space operating mode as defined by company procedure at any stage of a voyage.
• Records indicated that the required bridge team composition, as documented within the passage plan, was
not complied with at any single stage of a voyage.
• Records indicated that the bridge had been operated with the officer of the watch as the sole lookout in
contravention to company procedures at any stage of a voyage.
• Records indicated that the required engine room operating mode, as documented within the passage plan,
was not complied with at any stage of a voyage.
• Changes in the bridge team composition from one level to another and the times of each change were not
recorded in the log book or bell book
Where the review of bridge and engine room team composition identified observations relating to hours of rest non-
conformance, these should be addressed under question 3.4.1
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
