## Question 4.3.4

**Paragraph Number:**
4.3.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures to
prevent disruption and distraction on the bridge, and were these procedures being
complied with?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the bridge team can always maintain a safe navigational watch, free from disruption and
distraction.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures to prevent disruption and distraction on the
bridge.
• During the inspection of the bridge note any evidence of non-compliance with the company procedures.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures to prevent
disruption and distraction on the bridge.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures to prevent disruption and distraction on the bridge.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures to prevent disruption and distraction on the bridge including guidance
on:
o Bridge access by personnel with no operational bridge responsibilities.
o The use of mobile phones and other personal electronic devices.
o Internal and external communications.
o Non-essential activity.
o Internet and email access on the bridge.
o The effective management of the bridge space where it was combined with the cargo and/or
machinery control and monitoring functions.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures to prevent disruption and
distraction on the bridge.
• There was evidence of non-compliance with the company procedures to prevent disruption and distraction
on the bridge – give details.
Where a multifunctional bridge space was provided, an observation should not be made relating to non-navigational
activities occurring on the bridge provided that:
• The company procedure specifically addressed the management of potential distractions to the bridge team
resulting from the operation and monitoring of the cargo and/or machinery systems.
• The bridge space was laid out and divided up such that the operation and monitoring of the cargo and/or
machinery systems could be undertaken without distraction to the bridge team.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
4.4. Communications Equipment and Procedures
