## Question 4.3.2

**Paragraph Number:**
4.3.2

---

### **Question**
Were the engineer officers familiar with the company procedures defining
machinery space operating mode and, where required to be attended, the machinery
space team composition during the various stages of a voyage, and were records
available to confirm the machinery space had been operated accordingly?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room, Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO SOLAS
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the machinery space is adequately manned or monitored at all stages of a voyage or
operation.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which defined the required machinery space
operating mode for the various stages of a voyage.
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which defined the machinery space team
composition considering the proximity to navigational hazards, the traffic density and the state of visibility
and other operations such as drifting, “at sea” STS operations, Dynamically Positioned (DP) cargo
operations or underway stores / personnel transfer operations.
• Review the Engine Room Log Book for a recent voyage, including periods at anchor, to verify that the
machinery space was attended, when required, with the appropriate team composition in accordance with
the company procedure.
• Review the Engine Room Daily Order Book to verify that the anticipated times of changing the status of the
machinery space from unattended to attended had been communicated to the engine room staff.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure that defined the required machinery space status during all stages of a voyage,
including while at anchor, considering traffic density, proximity to navigational hazards and the state of
visibility.
• The company procedure that defined the required machinery space team composition considering traffic
density, proximity to navigational hazards and the state of visibility and, during other operations such drifting,
“at sea” STS operations, Dynamically Positioned (DP) cargo operations or underway stores / personnel
transfer operations.
• Engine Room Log Book, Engine Room Daily Order Book and any other supporting machinery space
records.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no procedure defining company expectations for operating the machinery space in either the
unattended or attended mode considering traffic density, proximity to navigational hazards and state of
visibility and, other operations such as at while at anchor, drifting, “at sea” STS operations, Dynamically
Positioned (DP) cargo operations or underway stores / personnel transfer operations.
• There was no company procedure which defined the required machinery space team composition
considering traffic density, proximity to navigational hazards and environmental conditions.
• The accompanying engineer officer was not familiar with the company procedures which defined the
expectations for the operating status of the machinery space or when required to be attended, the
machinery space team composition.
• The required machinery space status had not been communicated to engineering staff to permit effective
resource management.
• Records indicated that the required machinery space status, as documented within the passage plan, was
not complied with at any stage of a voyage.
• Records indicated that when operating in the attended status for navigational purposes, the machinery
space team composition was not in accordance with the company procedure.
• Records of the machinery space status or team composition were not available.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
