## Question 4.3.3

**Paragraph Number:**
4.3.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the company procedures for
integrating a pilot (or similar role*) into the bridge team and were records available to
demonstrate that the process had been followed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
IMPA: Guidance on the Master - Pilot Exchange (MPX)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that there is an effective process to integrate the pilot (or similar role*) into the bridge team.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for integrating a pilot* into the bridge team.
• Review the Master/Pilot information exchange and pilot checklists from two recent operations and verify that
the information required to be included had been fully and accurately entered and the pilot* had
acknowledged the handover of information, or where the pilot had refused to sign, the time of the completion
of the handover had been recorded.
• Review Bridge Log Books, bell books or other records and verify that the time of the transfer of the conn
between the Master and Pilot, between pilots and between the pilot and the Master had been recorded.
• Interview the accompanying navigation officer to verify that they understood the source, intent and meaning
of the information required to be entered on the Master/Pilot information and/or pilot card checklists.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for integrating a pilot* into the bridge team.
• The Master/Pilot information exchange and pilot card checklists for recent operations.
• The Bridge Log Book, bell book and other operational records covering recent operations.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no procedure for integrating a pilot* into the bridge team.
• The vessel operator had not developed Master/Pilot information and/or pilot card checklists for use onboard.
• The accompanying navigation officer was not fully familiar with the company procedure for integrating a
pilot* into the bridge team.
• The accompanying navigation officer was not familiar with the practical requirements for each item included
on the Master/Pilot information and/or pilot card checklists.
• The Master/Pilot information and/or pilot card checklists were not available for all operations where a pilot*
was engaged.
• The Master/Pilot information and/or pilot card checklists reviewed were either missing, incomplete or
contained erroneous safety related information pertinent to the operations being undertaken.
• The time of the completion of the Master/Pilot information exchange was not recorded for the operation(s)
reviewed.
• The times of the transfer of the conn between the Master and pilot, between pilots and between the Pilot and
Master, as applicable, were not recorded.
• Defective equipment affecting safe navigation, manoeuvring or mooring operations, where it existed, had not
been recorded on the pilot card checklist for the reviewed operations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
