## Question 4.4.5

**Paragraph Number:**
4.4.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the operation, testing and
maintenance of the GMDSS VHF, MF and HF radio and satellite communications
equipment and were records available to demonstrate the equipment was in good order?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: RESOLUTION A.702(17) Radio maintenance guidelines for the global maritime distress and safety system
(GMDSS) related to sea areas A3 and A4

---

### **Objective**
To ensure effective communications in routine or emergency situations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, testing, maintenance and log
keeping of the GMDSS VHF, MF and HF radio and satellite communications equipment.
• Inspect the:
o GMDSS VHF, MF and HF radio and satellite communications equipment, including aerials and
antennae.
o GMDSS battery locker.
o Emergency lighting for the radio station and verify that it is functioning.
• Review:
o The GMDSS Radio Log Book.
o A copy of the record of equipment for the cargo ship safety radio certificate Form R or Form C.
o Any separate test and maintenance records for the GMDSS reserve batteries.
o Any shore-based maintenance agreement for the GMDSS equipment.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o Routine operation of the GMDSS VHF, MF and HF radio and satellite communications equipment.
o Daily, weekly and monthly radio equipment tests.
o GMDSS radio log keeping.
o The chosen arrangement to ensure availability of GMDSS equipment at sea.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, testing, maintenance and log keeping of the GMDSS VHF, MF
and HF radio and satellite communications equipment.
• The GMDSS Radio Log Book.
• A copy of the record of equipment for the cargo ship safety radio certificate Form R or Form C.
• Test and maintenance records for the GMDSS reserve batteries.
• Any shore-based maintenance agreement for the GMDSS equipment.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, testing, maintenance and log keeping of the GMDSS
VHF, MF and HF radio and satellite communications equipment.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the operation of the GMDSS VHF, MF and HF radio and
satellite communications equipment.
• The accompanying officer was unable to describe the daily, weekly and monthly radio tests required in
accordance with the SMS (including flag state requirements) and the manufacturers’ maintenance and
operation manuals.
• There was no evidence that the required daily, weekly and monthly radio tests had been performed.
• The GMDSS reserve batteries were not charging correctly.
• There was no evidence that the capacity of the GMDSS reserve batteries had been tested within the last 12
months.
• The GMDSS reserve battery locker:
o Contained damaged batteries.
o Was not weather tight.
o Was not properly ventilated.
o Contained inappropriate material.
• Goggles, rubber gloves, a protective apron and an eye-wash bottle were not available in the GMDSS
reserve battery locker where lead-acid/alkaline batteries were installed.
• The GMDSS Radio Log Book did not provide a record of all events connected with the radio
communications facilities on board including:
• There was no evidence of a shore-based maintenance programme to ensure availability of the radio
equipment where this was one of the documented maintenance choices for the vessel, or the certificate had
expired.
• An item of the GMDSS VHF, MF and HF radio and satellite communications equipment was not operational
or defective in any respect.
• A GMDSS printer was defective, printouts were unreadable or there were no paper rolls available.
• GMDSS equipment aerials or antennae were in poor condition, damaged or defective in any way.
• The emergency lighting for the radio station was not functioning.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
