## Question 4.4.3

**Paragraph Number:**
4.4.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the survival craft portable two-way VHF radios and were they in good order with records
available to demonstrate that had they been inspected and tested as required?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: Resolution MSC.149(77) Adoption of the revised performance standards for survival craft portable two-way vhf
radiotelephone apparatus

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the survival craft portable two-way VHF radios will function correctly in an emergency.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure to ensure that survival craft portable two-way
VHF radios were periodically inspected and tested and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• Review records of periodic inspections and tests of the survival craft portable two-way VHF radios.
• Inspect the survival craft portable two-way VHF radios and replaceable primary batteries, if provided, and
verify that:
o Brief operating instructions were clearly indicated on the exterior of the equipment.
o The expiry date of the primary battery was clearly indicated.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation, inspection and
testing of the survival craft portable two-way VHF radios.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure to ensure survival craft portable two-way vhf radios were periodically inspected and
tested and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• The GMDSS Radio Log Book.
• Records of periodic inspections and tests of the survival craft portable two-way VHF radios.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure to ensure that survival craft portable two-way VHF radios were
periodically inspected, tested and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• Company procedures did not provide guidance on the use of the survival craft portable two-way VHF radios
for non-emergency communications.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the purpose and operation of the survival craft portable two-
way VHF radios.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the required inspection and testing of the survival craft
portable two-way VHF radios.
• There were insufficient survival craft portable two-way VHF radios on board.
• The stowage location of survival craft portable two-way VHF radios was not clearly marked with the
recommended symbols and the number of radios.
• Survival craft portable two-way vhf radios or replaceable primary batteries were not of a highly visible
yellow/orange colour or marking.
• A survival craft portable two-way VHF radio was not clearly marked with the required operating instructions.
• A survival craft portable two-way VHF radio battery was past its expiry date.
• The seal on a replaceable primary battery or radio was broken.
• Other batteries were not clearly distinguished from primary batteries by colour or marking.
• A survival craft portable two-way VHF radio did not have provision for attachment to clothing.
• A survival craft portable two-way VHF radio did not have a wrist or neck strap with a weak link.
• Records of periodic inspections and tests of the survival craft portable two-way VHF radios were incomplete.
• The survival craft portable two-way VHF radios were defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
