## Question 4.4.4

**Paragraph Number:**
4.4.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and navigation officers familiar with the procedures for sending
and receiving distress, urgency and safety messages and were suitable instructions
posted by the GMDSS equipment?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
IMO/ICAO International aeronautical and maritime search and rescue manual (IAMSAR) Vol III

---

### **Objective**
To ensure effective communications will be made by the vessel in an emergency situation.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for emergency communications using the
GMDSS equipment.
• Review the entries in the GMDSS Radio Log Book and verify that distress, urgency and safety
messages received had been recorded in accordance with company procedures.
• Interview the accompanying officer to assess their familiarity with the procedures for sending and receiving
distress, urgency and safety messages using the GMDSS equipment.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for emergency communications.
• The GMDSS Radio Log Book.
• International Aeronautical and Maritime Search and Rescue Manual (IAMSAR) Vol III.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for emergency communications which gave guidance on, and
designated responsibility for, distress communications in an emergency situation.
• A qualified GMDSS operator had not been designated in the emergency station bill as being responsible for
radio communications in a distress.
• Instructions for the preparation and transmission of distress and urgency messages using the GMDSS
equipment were not clearly displayed by the equipment.
• There was no copy of the International Aeronautical and Maritime Search and Rescue Manual Volume III,
latest edition, (IAMSAR Vol III) available at the GMDSS radio station.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the:
o Company procedures for emergency communications which gave guidance on distress
communications in an emergency situation.
o Requirements for GMDSS radio watchkeeping on their vessel.
o Procedures for sending distress, urgency and safety messages contained in the International
Aeronautical and Maritime Search and Rescue Manual Volume III, (IAMSAR Vol III), Section 4.
o Process of preparing and transmitting distress and urgency messages using the GMDSS
equipment.
o The process for recording the details of distress, urgency and safety messages received.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
