## Question 4.4.2

**Paragraph Number:**
4.4.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the operation of the Search and Rescue
Transmitters (SARTs), and were the SARTs in good order with records available to
demonstrate that had they had been inspected and tested as required?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Lifeboat deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: Resolution A.802(19) Recommendation on performance standards for survival craft radar transponders for use
in search and rescue operations
IMO: Resolution MSC.246(83) Performance standards for survival craft AIS search and rescue transmitters (AIS-
SART) for use in search and rescue operations

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the Search and Rescue Transmitters (SARTs) will function correctly in an emergency.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure to ensure that SARTs were periodically
inspected, tested and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• Review records of periodic inspections and tests of the SART(s).
• Inspect the SART(s).
• Interview the accompanying officer and verify their familiarity with:
o The purpose and operation of the SARTs carried onboard.
o How to conduct the self-test function for each type of SART carried.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure to ensure that SARTs were periodically inspected, tested and ready for immediate
use in an emergency.
• The GMDSS Radio Log Book.
• Records of periodic inspections and tests of the SART(s).

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There was no company procedure to ensure that SARTs were periodically inspected, tested and ready for
immediate use in an emergency.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the purpose and operation of the SARTs.
• The accompanying officer was unable to explain/demonstrate how to mount a SART on a lifeboat or liferaft.
• The accompanying officer was unable to describe how a SART transmission would be displayed on a radar
screen.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the required inspection and testing of the SARTs.
• The accompanying officer was unable to explain how to perform the self-tests on the SART units provided
onboard.
• The stowage location(s) of SARTs were not clearly marked with the recommended symbols.
• A SART was not clearly marked with the required operating and/or testing instructions.
• A SART battery was past its expiry date.
• The lanyard was missing from a SART.
• Records of periodic inspections and self-tests of the SARTs were incomplete.
• One or more SART was not located as required.
• One or more SART was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
