## Question 4.4.1

**Paragraph Number:**
4.4.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the operation of the Emergency Position
Indicating Radio Beacon (EPIRB) and was the EPIRB in good order with records available
to demonstrate that had it been inspected, tested and maintained as required?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1039 Guidelines for shore-based maintenance of satellite EPIRBs
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1040/Rev.2 Guidelines on annual testing of 406 mhz satellite EPIRBs

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the Emergency Position Indicating Radio Beacon (EPIRB) will function correctly in an emergency.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure to ensure that EPIRBs were periodically
inspected, tested and maintained, and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• Review records of periodic inspections, tests and maintenance of the EPIRB.
• Inspect the EPIRB and associated fittings.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o How to conduct the self-test for the EPIRB.
o The manufacturer's instructions on the frequency of conducting the self-test function to preserve
battery life.
o The procedure to follow should the EPIRB be activated in non-emergency circumstances.
o Manual operation of the EPIRB.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure to ensure that EPIRBs were periodically inspected, tested and maintained and
ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• The GMDSS Radio Log Book.
• Records of periodic inspections, tests and maintenance of the EPIRB.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the required inspection and testing of the EPIRB.
• The accompanying officer was unable to explain:
o How to perform the self-test.
o The procedure to follow if the EPIRB was accidentally activated in a non-emergency situation.
o How to manually operate the EPIRB.
• The EPIRB was not:
o Armed and ready for automatic activation.
o Capable of floating-free unimpeded or being easily manually released.
o Clearly marked with the required information and operating instructions.
o Free of visible defects, signs of damage, degradation or cracks to the casing, or of water ingress.
• The EPIRB battery was past its expiry date
• The hydrostatic release was not in good order or past its expiry date.
• The lanyard was:
o Tied to the vessel or the mounting bracket.
o Not in good condition and neatly stowed.
• Records were incomplete for:
o Periodic inspections and self-tests of the EPIRB
o Annual tests for all aspects of operational efficiency.
o Five-yearly maintenance at an approved shore-based maintenance facility (or more frequent if
required by the flag state).
• The EPIRB was defective in any respect.
• There was no beacon operating instructions manual available.
• There were no pictorial instructions for manual operation visible at the location of the beacon.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
