## Question 4.4.6

**Paragraph Number:**
4.4.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and crew aware of the potential danger of using radio or
mobile telephone equipment during cargo and ballast handling operations and was there
a sufficient number of intrinsically safe portable radios for use in operational areas?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Main Deck, Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure a hazard is never created by the inappropriate use of radio or mobile telephone equipment during
cargo or ballast operations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the safe use of radio and telephone
equipment during cargo and ballast handling operations.
• During the course of the inspection, confirm:
o Sufficient VHF or UHF portable radios in good working order were available to properly coordinate
cargo, ballast and bunker handling operations.
o Non-intrinsically safe mobile phones were not in use outside the accommodation block.
o Main transmitting antennae were earthed or isolated during cargo and ballast handling operations
and that no transmissions were being made for test or other purposes.
o Fixed VHF and UHF equipment was switched to low power (one watt or less) during cargo and
ballast handling operations, and that portable VHF or UHF radios in use had a power output of one
watt or less.
o Details of restrictions on the use of mobile telephones were prominently displayed at the gangway.
• If MF/HF radio or radar equipment was under repair/service, confirm this had been discussed at the pre-
transfer conference and a safe system of work agreed.
• If the use of intrinsically safe mobile phones was allowed outside the accommodation block, verify any
equipment observed in use was clearly marked as intrinsically safe and/or properly certificated.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The procedure for the safe use of radio and telephone equipment during cargo and ballast handling
operations.
• Certification for any intrinsically safe mobile phones in use outside of the accommodation block.
• The inventory of intrinsically safe portable VHF/UHF radios used for cargo, ballast and bunker operations.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There were no company procedures for the safe use of radio and telephone equipment during cargo and
ballast handling operations.
• The Master, an officer or a rating was unfamiliar with the company procedures for the safe use of radio and
telephone equipment during cargo and ballast handling operations.
• There were insufficient intrinsically safe VHF or UHF portable radios available in good working order to
properly coordinate cargo, ballast and bunker handling operations.
• MF/HF radio or radar equipment was under repair/service, but this had not been discussed at the pre-
transfer conference and a safe system of work agreed.
• MF/HF radio transmissions were observed being made during cargo and ballast handling operations.
• Main transmitting antennae were not earthed or isolated during cargo and ballast handling operations.
• Fixed VHF and UHF equipment was not switched to low power (one watt or less) during cargo and ballast
handling operations.
• Portable VHF or UHF radios in use had a power output of more than one watt.
• A damaged portable VHF or UHF radio was observed in use.
• Details of restrictions on the use of mobile telephones were not prominently displayed at the gangway.
• Non-intrinsically safe mobile phones were observed in use outside of the accommodation block.
• Where use of intrinsically safe mobile phones was permitted outside of the accommodation block, the
equipment in use was not clearly marked or properly certified as being intrinsically safe.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
4.5. DP & Shuttle Tanker Specialist Procedures and Equipment
