## Question 4.5.5

**Paragraph Number:**
4.5.5

---

### **Question**
Were up to date Field Operations Manuals on board for each offshore terminal to
which the vessel trades, were the Master and officers familiar with their content, and
were records available of the regular communication checks with terminal installations
as required by Field Specific Operating Guidelines (FSOG)?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
OCIMF Guidelines for Offshore Tanker Operations
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the Master and officers are aware of the procedures and regulations at each offshore terminal to
which the vessel trades, and that regular communications are established as required by Field Specific
Operating Guidelines (FSOG).

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures to ensure that the most up-to-date editions of
the field operations manuals are on board for each offshore terminal to which the vessel trades.
• Sight the field operations manuals for each offshore terminal to which the vessel trades.
• Sight the records of the regular communication checks with terminal installations as required by Field
Specific Operating Guidelines (FSOG).
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the content of the manuals, including FSOG
and contact numbers, call signs and communications channels for both operational and emergency use.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures to ensure that the most up-to-date editions of the field operations manuals are on
board for each offshore terminal to which the vessel trades.
• Field operations manuals for each offshore terminal to which the vessel trades.
• Records of the regular communication checks with terminal installations as required by Field Specific
Operating Guidelines (FSOG).

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures to ensure that the most up-to-date editions of the field operations
manuals for each offshore terminal to which the vessel trades are available on board.
• There was no field operations manual available on board for an offshore terminal to which the vessel trades.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the procedure for verifying that the field operation manual in
use was the latest edition.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the content of the field operation manual, including Field
Specific Operating Guidelines (FSOG) and contact numbers, call signs and communications channels for
both operational and emergency use, for the last offshore terminal visited.
• There were no records of the regular communication checks with terminal installations as required by FSOG
at the last offshore terminal visited.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
5. Safety Management
5.1. Emergency Response Plans and Drills
