## Question 4.5.4

**Paragraph Number:**
4.5.4

---

### **Question**
Was the vessel provided with a comprehensive DP operations manual and were the
Master and officers familiar with its contents, including DP checklists, capability plots,
consequence analysis and activity specific operating guidelines (ASOG)?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1580 Guidelines for vessels and units with dynamic positioning (DP) systems
IMCA: The Design and Operation of DP Vessels IMCA M 103 Rev. 5 June 2021

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the Master and officers are provided with comprehensive procedures for conducting DP
operations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and review:
o DP operations manual.
o Completed DP location checklists and watchkeeping checklists.
o Hard copy capability plots.
o DP footprint records.
o DP operations risk assessments.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the contents of the DP operations manual,
including:
o Capability plots.
o DP footprints.
o Consequence analysis.
o Activity specific operational guidelines (ASOG).

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• DP operations manual.
• Completed DP location checklists and watchkeeping checklists.
• Hard copy capability plots.
• DP footprint records.
• DP operations risk assessments.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no DP operations manual available on board.
• The DP operations manual was not vessel specific.
• The DP operations manual was not in a language that could be understood by the DP operators.
• Procedures in the DP operations manual did not include:
o DP location checklists and watchkeeping checklists.
o DP operating instructions.
o Risk assessment reviews.
o Guidance on the use of:
 Capability plots.
 DP footprints.
 Consequence analysis.
o Activity specific operating guidelines.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the contents of the DP operations manual, including
capability plots, DP footprints, consequence analysis and activity specific operational guidelines (ASOG).
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• DP location checklists and watchkeeping checklists had not been completed as required.
• There were no risk assessments for specific DP operations/locations.
• The DP operations manual was not readily accessible at the DP control station.
• On a DP2 or DP3 vessel, the DP control system did not include ‘consequence analysis’ software.
• Following a failure of a DP component, a risk assessment had not been completed prior to resuming
operations.
• DP capability plots were not readily available at the DP control location.
• Hard copies of the DP capability plots were not available.
• DP footprint plots were not available for comparison of the vessels actual position keeping ability compared
with DP capability plots.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
