## Question 4.5.1

**Paragraph Number:**
4.5.1

---

### **Question**
Was the latest Annual DP Trial report available on board, were the Master and
officers familiar with the contents, and had they taken part in onboard training and drills
involving various DP scenarios?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMCA M 117 Rev. 2 Guidelines for The Training and Experience of Key DP Personnel
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1580 Guidelines for vessels and units with dynamic positioning (DP) systems
IMCA: M 190 Guidance for Developing and Conducting Annual DP Trials Programmes for DP Vessels. Rev 2.1

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vessel’s DP system is fully operational, and that the vessel is fault tolerant according to
the equipment class requirements.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Sight and review the latest annual DP Trial Report, including:
o List of findings, and closeout actions.
o Summary statement confirming the fitness of the vessel to carry out DP operations equivalent to its
DP class.
o Test sheets from the PMS if a rolling test program is utilised.
• Sight and review previous Annual DP Trial reports.
• Sight and review records of training and/or drills involving DP scenarios.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the annual DP trial procedures and the
contents of the report.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The latest Annual DP Trials report.
• If the Annual DP trials were being carried out as part of a rolling test programme over the year, test sheets
and/or other documented evidence of compliance from the Planned Maintenance System.
• Previous Annual DP Trials reports.
• Records of training and/or drills involving DP scenarios.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures giving guidance on the performance of Annual DP Trials.
• The latest DP Annual Trials report was not available on board.
• Previous Annual DP Trials reports were not available on board.
• The latest DP Annual Trials had not been carried out within three months before/after the anniversary date
of the initial FMEA proving trial.
• The Annual DP Trials date had not been synchronised following a new FMEA proving trial conducted after a
major upgrade or conversion.
• There was no evidence that the Annual DP Trials had been witnessed by a competent and independent third
party.
• The Annual DP Trials were being carried out as part of a rolling test programme over the year as part of the
planned maintenance system, but there was no documentary evidence to show that the test results were
subject to independent scrutiny and approval.
• Where the Annual DP Trials were being carried out as part of a rolling test programme over the year as part
of the planned maintenance system, test sheets for items tested were either incomplete, lacking detail or not
signed off by the person carrying out the test.
• It could not be shown that following the Annual DP Trials, the listed category ‘A’ findings had been rectified.
• Findings from previous Annual DP Trials were found to be ‘open’ with no documented close out actions,
and/or had not been recorded as deficiencies in the onboard SMS.
• The latest Annual DP Trials report did not contain a statement that the vessel was considered fit to carry out
DP operations equivalent to its DP class.
• The latest Annual DP Trials report did not contain list of findings.
• There was no evidence that the Master and officers had taken part in onboard training and drills involving
various DP scenarios.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the procedures for conducting Annual DP Trials and/or the
content of the report(s).
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
