## Question 4.5.2

**Paragraph Number:**
4.5.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the use of
Position Reference Systems (PRS), and was the equipment in satisfactory condition with
sensor offset data readily available to the DPO?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
IMCA: Guidelines on the Shared Use of Sensors for Survey and Positioning Purposes
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF Guidelines for Offshore Tanker Operations
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1580 Guidelines for vessels and units with dynamic positioning (DP) systems

---

### **Objective**
To ensure Position Reference Systems are in satisfactory condition with sensor offset data readily available
to the DPO.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, company procedures for the use of Position Reference Systems during
DP operations at each offtake location.
• Sight and where necessary review, the sensor offset data file.
• Review the DP logbook and data log for any indication of PRS faults.
• Inspect the PRS equipment recognising that it might not be possible to run or demonstrate while alongside a
terminal.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the use of Position Reference Systems during DP operations at each offtake
location.
• Sensor offset data file.
• DP logbook.
• DP data log.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the use of Position Reference Systems during DP operations at
each offtake location.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the use of Position Reference
Systems during DP operations at each offtake location.
• One or more of the PRS was not in satisfactory operational condition.
• On a DP2 or DP3 vessel, fewer than three different, operational, Position Reference Systems (PRS) had
been available to the DP operator during an offtake operation.
• The DP system was not equipped with a minimum of two independent differential satellite positioning
systems.
• Controls for PRS were not accessible within easy reach of the DP control station.
• PRS sensor offsets were not adequately filed and readily available to DPOs.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
