## Question 4.5.3

**Paragraph Number:**
4.5.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for reporting
and recording DP events and incidents, and were all DP parameters being logged and
recorded?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
Norwegian Oil and Gas recommended guidelines for offshore loading shuttle tankers Guideline No. 140
OCIMF Guidelines for Offshore Tanker Operations
OCIMF: Dynamic Positioning Failure Mode Effect Analysis Assurance Framework Risk-based Guidance 1st Ed 2020
IMCA: The Design and Operation of DP Vessels IMCA M 103 Rev. 5 June 2021

---

### **Objective**
To ensure DP events and incidents are recorded, reported and investigated, and lessons learnt from
incidents used to increase industry safety standards.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for recording, reporting and investigating DP
related incidents, undesired events and observations.
• Sight and review:
o Records of DP related incidents, undesired events and observations.
o Independent data logger records, if readily accessible.
o DP fault log.
• Inspect the independent data logger.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for recording,
reporting and investigating DP related incidents, undesired events and observations.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for recording, reporting and investigating DP related incidents, undesired events and
observations.
• Records of DP related incidents, undesired events and observations.
• Independent data logger records.
• DP fault log.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There were no company procedures for recording, reporting and investigating DP related incidents,
undesired events and observations.
• DP related incidents, undesired events and observations had not been reported according to the vessel’s
ISM system or via the method set out in IMCA M 103, latest revision.
• DP related incident, undesired event and observation reports had not been retained on board.
• An investigation into a DP related incident, undesired event or observation had not been closed out within a
reasonable time frame.
• Records of faults related to the DP system had not been retained on board.
• The vessel was provided with an independent data logger that recorded all DP parameters; however, data
was not being retained on board for a minimum of 1 year.
• The vessel was not provided with an independent data logger unit that recorded all DP parameters, and
procedures did not ensure relevant data would be secured in the event of a DP incident.
• The independent data logger was defective in any respect.
• The company procedures did not include a system to actively transfer industry experience and operational
knowledge gained from DP related incidents, undesired events and observations.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for recording, reporting and
investigating DP related incidents, undesired events and observations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
