## Question 5.10.2

**Paragraph Number:**
5.10.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, deck officers and deck ratings familiar with the company
procedures for rigging the accommodation ladders, and were the accommodation
ladders in good order and used in accordance with the company procedure and
manufacturer’s instructions?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Interview - Deck Rating, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1331 Guidelines for Construction
Installation
Maintenance and Inspection/Survey of Means of Embarkation and Disembarkation.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure accommodation ladders are always correctly rigged under the supervision of a responsible
person or officer.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which described the requirements for the
rigging and recovery of the accommodation ladders.
• Where necessary, review the manufacturer’s instructions and/or drawings for the accommodation ladders.
• Where necessary review the maintenance and load test records for the accommodation ladders, including
the date of the fall wires installation.
• Inspect one accommodation ladder and its hoisting arrangement and verify that:
o The accommodation ladder was clearly marked at each end with a plate or other markings showing
the restrictions on the safe operation and loading, including the maximum and minimum permitted
design angles of inclination, design load, maximum load on bottom end plate.
o The fall wire(s) were in apparent good order.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o There was sufficient wire remaining on the winch storage drum when the accommodation ladder
was deployed at the maximum freeboard (It is not expected that the inspector requests that this is
demonstrated)
o The visible parts of the accommodation ladder and its hoisting arrangement were in apparent good
order and free from:
 Cracks or fractures.
 Excessive corrosion especially in areas where dissimilar metals are used.
 Bucking or deformation of the individual steps or main structure.
 Missing, broken or deformed stanchions or handrails.
 Seized turntables, rollers or pivots.
 Damage to lifting and support points.
 Missing locking or securing pins for adjusting the lower platform angle.
• Request that the accommodation ladder illumination is switched on and demonstrated as functioning.
Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
• The required level of supervision for the rigging and recovery of the accommodation ladder.
• The safety precautions required when working over the side or outside the ship’s rail while rigging or
recovering an accommodation ladder, where this was required.
• Any restriction, or additional precautions, for the use of the accommodation ladder while the vessel was
underway.
• The circumstances where a safety net was required to be rigged when using an accommodation ladder.
Interview a deck rating to verify their understanding of the process to rig and recover the accommodation ladder
arrangement especially as it related to working over the side or outside the ship’s rails, where this was required.
Where the information plate for a portable gangway was missing and the vessel had marked the required information
on the accommodation ladder in some other manner, the vessel must be able to demonstrate that the information
was an exact representation of the information shown on the original plate.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for the safe rigging of the accommodation ladders.
• The manufacturer’s instructions and/or design drawings for the accommodation ladders.
• The maintenance records for each accommodation ladder.
• The certificate and date of installation for each accommodation ladder fall wire.
• The certificate for the five-yearly load test for each accommodation ladder.
• Evidence of thorough examination of the portable gangway during annual surveys.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure that described the safe rigging of an accommodation ladder.
• The maintenance records for the accommodation ladders were missing or incomplete.
• The certificate(s) for the five-yearly load test of an accommodation ladder was not available or the test had
not been completed within the required time frame.
• There was no evidence that the accommodation ladder fall wires had been replaced within the previous five
years or, the manufacturer’s certificate was not available for a fall wire in service.
• The fall wire was not long enough to permit the accommodation ladder to be deployed at the maximum
freeboard whilst leaving sufficient turns on the winch drum.
• An inspected accommodation ladder was found:
o Without plates or markings showing the restrictions on the safe operation and loading, including the
maximum and minimum permitted design angles of inclination, design load, maximum load on
bottom end plate.
o With defects such as fractures, corrosion or deformation, to the structure of the ladder, steps,
handrails, stanchions, turntables, rollers, pivots or lifting arrangements.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o With defects to its hoisting arrangements.
o With defective fall wire(s).
o To have temporary repairs to the main structure or strength members of the ladder or its hoisting
system.
o Any other defect that compromised its safe use.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for rigging and recovering an
accommodation ladder.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the operation or rigging of the accommodation ladder
provided.
• An interviewed deck rating was unfamiliar with the process to safely rig and recover an accommodation
ladder.
• The accommodation ladder illumination was defective.
• Where an accommodation ladder was rigged during the inspection:
o It was observed to be rigged or used in a manner that did not conform to the accommodation
ladder design limitations.
o The bottom platform had not been adjusted to keep it level when deployed at the boarding level.
o A safety net had not been rigged when required by the company procedure.
o There was no lifebuoy, light and line available at the gangway landing area. (The line should be
connected to the lifebuoy and light)
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
