## Question 5.10.6

**Paragraph Number:**
5.10.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for
helicopter/ship operations, and had the crew involved received appropriate training?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF Guidelines for Offshore Tanker Operations
ICS: Guide to Helicopter/Ship Operations 5th Edition
Civil Aviation Authority: CAP437 Standards for Offshore Helicopter Landing Areas (2018)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure helicopter/ship operations on vessels equipped with helicopter facilities are performed safely and
in a controlled manner.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and where necessary, review the company procedures providing guidance on helicopter/ship
operations.
• Review the helicopter operations risk assessment and evidence of last review.
• Sight the Helicopter Landing Area Certificate (HLAC) if available.
• If no HLAC is available, review records of appropriate formal accredited training courses such as Offshore
Helicopter Landing Officer (HLO) and Offshore Helideck Assistant (HDA) followed by ship-specific
familiarisation of the helicopter facilities and operations.
• Review records of emergency drills in helicopter/ship operations.
• Sight the ICS Guide to Helicopter/Ship Operations.
• Review completed ICS Shipboard Safety Checklists for Helicopter Operations (or equivalent).
• During the course of the inspection, inspect the required emergency tools and equipment as set out in the
ICS Guide to Helicopter/Ship Operations.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures providing guidance on helicopter/ship operations.
• Helicopter operations risk assessment and evidence of last review.
• Helicopter Landing Area Certificate (HLAC) if available.
• If no HLAC is available, records of appropriate formal accredited training courses such as Offshore
Helicopter Landing Officer (HLO) and Offshore Helideck Assistant (HDA) followed by ship-specific
familiarisation of the helicopter facilities and operations.
• Records of emergency drills in helicopter/ship operations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• ICS Guide to Helicopter/Ship Operations.
• Completed ICS Shipboard Safety Checklists for Helicopter Operations (or equivalent).

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no procedures providing guidance on helicopter/ship operations including:
o Helicopter operations risk assessment.
o Identification of job roles and responsibilities for all personnel involved.
o Training requirements of all personnel involved.
o Emergency drill requirements.
o Use of the ICS Shipboard Safety Checklist for Helicopter Operations (or equivalent).
o Emergency tools and equipment requirements.
o Restrictions on cargo operations during helicopter/ship operations.
o Reasons for, and extent of, any operational limitations.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the procedures providing guidance on helicopter/ship
operations or the ICS Guide to Helicopter/Ship Operations.
• There was no helicopter operations risk assessment available.
• There was no evidence that the helicopter operations risk assessment had been reviewed in accordance
with the company procedures.
• No HLAC was available, and there were no/incomplete records of appropriate formal accredited training
courses such as Offshore Helicopter Landing Officer (HLO) and Offshore Helideck Assistant (HDA) followed
by ship-specific familiarisation of the helicopter facilities and operations for all personnel involved.
• There were no records of emergency drills in helicopter/ship operations.
• There was no copy of the ICS Guide to Helicopter/Ship Operations on board.
• The ICS Shipboard Safety Checklist for Helicopter Operations (or equivalent) had not been completed prior
to performing helicopter/ship operations.
• The required emergency tools and equipment as set out in the ICS Guide to Helicopter/Ship Operations
were not readily available.
• Restrictions on cargo operations during helicopter/ship operations had not been complied with.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
