## Question 5.10.5

**Paragraph Number:**
5.10.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for
helicopter/ship operations, and had these procedures been complied with?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
OCIMF Guidelines for Offshore Tanker Operations
ICS: Guide to Helicopter/Ship Operations 5th Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure helicopter/ship operations are performed safely and in a controlled manner.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures providing guidance on helicopter/ship
operations.
• Review the helicopter operations risk assessment and evidence of last review.
• Sight the ICS Guide to Helicopter/Ship Operations.
• Review completed ICS Shipboard Safety Checklists for Helicopter Operations (or equivalent).
• Review records of training and emergency drills for helicopter/ship operations.
• During the course of the inspection, inspect the emergency tools and equipment required by the ICS Guide
to Helicopter/Ship Operations.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures providing guidance on helicopter/ship operations.
• Helicopter operations risk assessment and evidence of last review.
• ICS Guide to Helicopter/Ship Operations.
• Records of training and emergency drills in helicopter/ship operations.
• Completed ICS Shipboard Safety Checklists for Helicopter Operations (or equivalent).
• Inventory of helicopter tools and equipment required for routine and emergency operations.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no procedures providing guidance on helicopter/ship operations including:
o Helicopter operations risk assessment.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Training and emergency drill requirements.
o Preparation of a Helicopter Landing/Operating Area Plan.
o Use of the ICS Shipboard Safety Checklist for Helicopter Operations (or equivalent).
o Deck Party Officer and Deck Party Crew assignment.
o Emergency tools and equipment requirements.
o Restrictions on cargo operations during helicopter/ship operations.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the procedures providing guidance on helicopter/ship
operations or the ICS Guide to Helicopter/Ship Operations.
• There was no helicopter operations risk assessment available.
• There was no evidence that the helicopter operations risk assessment had been reviewed in accordance
with the company procedures.
• There was no record of the required training and emergency drills taking place.
• There was no copy of the ICS Guide to Helicopter/Ship Operations on board.
• There was no Helicopter Landing/Operating Area Plan available.
• The ICS Shipboard Safety Checklist for Helicopter Operations (or equivalent) had not been completed prior
to performing helicopter/ship operations.
• The emergency tools and equipment required by the ICS Guide to Helicopter/Ship Operations were not
readily available.
• Restrictions on cargo / crane operations during helicopter/ship operations had not been complied with.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
