## Question 5.10.4

**Paragraph Number:**
5.10.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company personnel transfer by
crane procedure, and where a personnel transfer basket (PTB) and accessories were
provided, were these in satisfactory condition and used in accordance with company
procedures and manufacturer’s recommendations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF: Transfer of Personnel by Crane between Vessels. First Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure personnel transfer by crane is always conducted in accordance with industry best practice
guidance.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure describing the requirements for personnel
transfer by crane.
• Sight the manufacturer’s test certificates for the PTB and any accessories.
• Where the vessel declared that the crane(s) were certified for personnel transfer through HVPQ 13.1.7, sight
the appropriate crane certification.
• Sight the training records for the personnel designated for personnel transfer by crane operations.
• Where necessary review the onboard maintenance and inspection records for the crane, PTB and
accessories.
• Where personnel transfer by crane had taken place within the previous three months, review the risk
assessment and personnel transfer by crane plan for one transfer or group of transfers.
• Inspect the PTB and accessories and verify that:
o Each item of equipment was in apparent good order.
o Each item of equipment was marked with its SWL or capacity.
o The PTB was marked with its empty weight.
o A crane hook pennant was available to keep the main crane hook clear of the PTB.
o Two tag lines were available which met the specifications provided in the OCIMF information paper.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The company procedure which described the transfer of personnel by crane.
o The risk assessment and personnel transfer by crane plan development process.
o The contingency plan for crane failure during a personnel transfer by crane.
o The use of the PTB and accessories provided.
Where no PTB or accessories were provided on board, focus on the procedural and familiarity aspects of the
question and guidance.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure describing personnel transfer by crane.
• The manufacturer’s test certificates for the PTB and accessories.
• The crane certification for personnel transfer use, where HVPQ question 13.1.7 had been declared as
affirmative.
• The training records for the personnel designated for personnel transfer by crane operations.
• The onboard maintenance and inspection records for the crane, PTB and accessories.
• Where personnel transfer by crane had taken place within the previous three months, the risk assessment
and personnel transfer by crane plan for one transfer or group of transfers.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There was no company procedure describing the requirements for transfer of personnel by crane.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with:
o The company procedure describing the requirements for transfer of personnel by crane.
o The use of the PTB or accessories for personnel transfer by crane.
o The checks on the PTB and accessories required to be carried out before personnel transfer by
crane is undertaken.
o The risk assessment and personnel transfer by crane plan development process.
o The contingency plan for crane failure during personnel transfer by crane.
• There were no manufacturer’s test certificates available for the PTB or lifting accessories.
• The crane(s) used for personnel transfer were not certified for personnel transfer contrary to the response to
HVPQ question 13.1.7.
• There was no contingency plan for the failure of the crane during personnel transfer.
• There were no training records available for the personnel designated for personnel transfer by crane
operations.
• Maintenance, inspection or testing of the crane, PTB or accessories had not been conducted in accordance
with the company procedure or the manufacturer’s recommendations.
• Records of maintenance, inspection or testing for the crane, PTB or accessories were incomplete or
missing.
• The PTB or lifting accessories were not marked with:
o The SWL or capacity.
o The empty weight.
• Taglines meeting the recommendations of the OCIMF information paper were not provided.
• Taglines were terminated with knots or back-splices.
• The PTB had not been replaced in accordance with the company PTB retirement policy or manufacturer’s
recommendations.
• Personnel transfers by crane had taken place without a risk assessment and/or personnel transfer by crane
plan being developed to address the circumstances at the time of transfer.
• There was evidence that personnel transfer by crane had taken place using a device or arrangement other
than an approved PTB provided by either the passive or active vessel.
Where no PTB or accessories were provided on board, select “Not Answerable” in the Hardware response tool then
select "Not Applicable - as instructed by question guidance".
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
