## Question 5.10.7

**Paragraph Number:**
5.10.7

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and crew familiar with the escape routes from the
machinery spaces, pump rooms, compressor rooms, accommodation spaces and, when
in port, from the vessel, and were these routes clearly marked, unobstructed and well
illuminated?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Pumproom, Compressor Room, Main Deck, Internal Accommodation, Interview - Rating
Publications
IMO Resolution A.1116(30) Escape route signs and equipment location markings
IMO: MSC/Circ.1120 Unified interpretations of SOLAS Chapter II-2
The FSS Code
The FTP Code and related fire test procedures.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers
OCIMF: Guidelines to Harden Vessels. First Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that there are marked escape routes available to ship and shore personnel in the event of an
emergency on the vessel.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure defining the requirements for identifying and
marking escape routes.
• Inspect the designated escape routes from the accommodation spaces, machinery spaces, pump room, etc.
and verify that:
o The escape routes were clearly identified by signs in accordance with IMO guidance.
o Where an escape route terminated at a door, the door was either unlocked or, where the door was
locked for security reasons, there was a rapid means of opening the door from the inside.
o Where an escape route was provided with a self-closing fire door, the door was able to close and
latch properly without external assistance.
o Where the escape route was an enclosed trunk, the emergency lighting was fully maintained with
functioning bulbs in every lamp.
o The escape routes, or doors forming part of an emergency escape route, were not obstructed.
• Inspect the escape route from the accommodation to the means of shore access and verify that it was
clearly marked with signs and, so far as possible, routed around mooring lines under tension and/or the
cargo manifolds in use.
• Where an external door forming part of an escape route was locked for security reasons:
o Request that an officer or rating demonstrate the opening of the door from the inside without the
need for a key or tools.
o Request that an officer or rating describes how a properly equipped firefighting party would open
the door from the outside in an emergency.
Unless documented security procedures override access in an emergency, then a means of access through a door
forming part of an emergency escape route should be possible from both directions.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure defining the requirements for identifying and marking emergency escape routes.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which defined the requirements for identifying and marking escape
routes.
• The escape routes from within the accommodation spaces, machinery spaces, pump rooms, compressor
rooms, thruster rooms or any other spaces where a person could become disorientated in an emergency
were not marked with signs in accordance with IMO guidance.
• The accompanying officer could not direct the inspector to the escape route from any location within the
vessel where there was potential to take a route to a dead end or space with no exit to an outside deck.
• External doors forming part of an escape route were locked or bolted with no means of rapid opening from
the inside.
• An officer or rating was unable to demonstrate the opening of an external door which formed part of an
escape route from the inside.
• Except in circumstances where security procedures required external doors to be secured to make entry
from the outside impossible, the accompanying officer was unable to explain how a properly equipped
firefighting team would be able to access through an external door forming part of an emergency escape
route.
• A means of escape was blocked or obstructed.
• Self-closing doors forming part of an escape route would not close and latch without intervention when
released.
• More than one bulb was unlit in any enclosed escape trunk.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The escape route from the accommodation to the shore means of access was not marked.
• The escape route from the accommodation to the shore means of access was routed over moorings lines
under tension or passed across the outboard side the cargo manifold in use unless there was no alternative
to such routing.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
5.11. Sample Management
