## Question 5.10.3

**Paragraph Number:**
5.10.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the company procedure for
providing safe access to the vessel while alongside a terminal/berth, and was safe
access provided by the ship’s portable gangway, the vessel’s accommodation ladder or a
shore gangway?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Main Deck, Interview - Deck Rating
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1331 Guidelines for Construction
Installation
Maintenance and Inspection/Survey of Means of Embarkation and Disembarkation.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure safe access is always provided between the ship and a berth, whether by a ship’s portable
gangway, accommodation ladder or a gangway provided by the terminal.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which described the requirements for providing
safe access to the vessel while alongside a terminal/berth.
• Where necessary, review the manufacturer’s instructions and/or drawings for the ship’s portable gangway,
where provided.
• Where necessary review the maintenance and load test records for the ship’s portable gangway, where
provided.
• Inspect the portable gangway, where provided, and verify that:
o It was clearly marked at each end with a plate showing the restrictions on the safe operation and
loading, including the maximum and minimum permitted design angles of inclination, design load…
o The visible parts of the portable gangway were in apparent good order and free from:
 Cracks or fractures.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
 Excessive corrosion especially in areas where dissimilar metals are used.
 Bucking or deformation of the individual steps or main structure.
 Missing, broken or deformed stanchions or handrails.
 Seized rollers or wheels.
 Damage to lifting and support points.
 Missing or damaged locking or securing arrangements for portable stanchions.
• Request that the gangway illumination is switched on and demonstrated as functioning.
• Where the ship’s portable gangway or accommodation ladder was deployed verify that:
o It was rigged in accordance with its design limitations.
• Where the ship’s portable gangway or accommodation ladder, or shore gangway was deployed verify that:
o Where it was resting on handrails, the handrails were designed to take the load.
o A safety net had been rigged when required.
o It was rigged in accordance with the guidance provided in ISGOTT6.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The required level of supervision for the rigging and recovery of the portable gangway, where
provided.
o The safety precautions required when working over the side or outside the ship’s rail while rigging
or recovering the portable gangway, where provided.
o The provision of a safety net when using the ship’s portable gangway, accommodation ladder or
where a shore gangway without fixed railings was provided.
• Interview a deck rating to verify their understanding of the process to rig and recover the portable gangway
arrangement, especially as it related to working over the side or outside the ship’s rails prior to the rigging of
the safety net.
This question relates to portable gangways and safe access at a terminal. If an accommodation ladder is in use as a
means of access focus on the means of access rather than the technical details of the accommodation ladder.
Where the information plate for a portable gangway was missing and the vessel had marked the required information
on the gangway in some other manner, the vessel must be able to demonstrate that the information was an exact
representation of the information shown on the original plate.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which described the requirements for providing safe access to the vessel while
alongside a terminal/berth.
• Where a portable gangway was provided:
o The manufacturer’s instructions and/or design drawings for the portable gangway.
o The maintenance records for the portable gangway.
o The certificate for the five-yearly load test for the portable gangway.
o Evidence of thorough examination of the portable gangway during annual surveys.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which described the requirements for providing safe access to the vessel
while alongside a terminal/berth.
• The maintenance records for the portable gangway, where provided, were missing or incomplete.
• Where a portable gangway was provided:
o The certificate for the five-yearly load test of the portable gangway was not available or the test had
not been completed within the required time frame.
o The portable gangway was found:
 Without plates or markings showing the restrictions on the safe operation and loading,
including the maximum and minimum permitted design angles of inclination and design
load.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
 With defects such as fractures, corrosion or deformation, to the structure of the ladder,
steps, handrails, stanchions, rollers, or lifting arrangements.
 With deteriorated tread/non-skid provision on each step surface.
 To have temporary repairs to the main structure or strength members of the gangway.
 Any other defect that compromised its safe use.
• The embarkation and disembarkation area illumination provided by the vessel was defective.
• Where a ship’s portable gangway or accommodation ladder was rigged during the inspection as a means of
embarkation or disembarkation to the terminal, it was observed to be rigged or used in a manner that did not
conform to the design limitations of the equipment.
• A safety net had not been rigged where required by the company procedure and/or the guidance provided
by ISGOTT6 16.4.3.4.
• A portable gangway was resting on handrails not designed to take the load.
• Where a gangway was resting on the ship’s handrails or bulwark, there was no bulwark ladder provided to
give safe access between the deck and the head of the gangway.
• There was no lifebuoy, light and line available at the gangway landing area. (The line should be connected
to the lifebuoy and light)
• There was no warning sign displayed at the gangway required by the company procedure and/or ISGOTT6
