## Question 5.10.1

**Paragraph Number:**
5.10.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, deck officers and deck ratings familiar with the company
procedures for rigging the pilot boarding arrangements, and was the equipment provided
in satisfactory condition and used in accordance with industry best practice?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Deck Rating, Main Deck
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: Resolution A.1045(27) Recommendation on pilot transfer arrangements
IMO: Resolution A.1108(29) Amendments to the Recommendation on pilot transfer arrangements

---

### **Objective**
To ensure pilot boarding arrangements are always correctly rigged under the supervision of a responsible
officer.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which described the requirements for the
rigging and recovery of the pilot boarding arrangements.
• Where necessary review the certification and maintenance records for the pilot ladders.
• Inspect at least one pilot ladder and verify that:
o The ladder was clearly identified with tags or other permanent marking to allow connection to
certification and maintenance records.
o The side ropes were continuous with no shackles, splices or knots.
o The steps were equally spaced.
o The steps were horizontal and tightly secured.
o Each spreader was integral to a step was not a separate item lashed between steps.
o The side ropes were equally spaced.
o The steps were not painted, varnished, dirty or slippery.
o The steps were free of cracks or crush damage.
o There were no loops or tripping lines to present a tripping hazard or that could foul the pilot launch.
o The ladder was apparently constructed in accordance with the guidance provided in the Bridge
Procedures Guide (BPG) checklist A4.
o Where the ladder had been repaired with replacement steps, the number of replacement steps and
the means of inserting them was in accordance with the manufacturer’s guidance.
• Inspect the pilot ladder securing arrangements and verify that the weight of the ladder was taken by the side
ropes and not by a step.
• Inspect the access to deck and verify that deck securing points, handhold stanchions and a bulwark ladder
were provided as appropriate to the pilot boarding arrangement provided.
• Inspect the deck at the pilot boarding position and verify that the deck was provided with an anti-slip finish.
• Inspect the gateway in the rails or bulwark, where provided, and verify that it opened inwards, was provided
with holdback arrangements and that it did not impede the safe passage of the pilot when boarding or
disembarking.
• Verify that the pilot boarding position was within the parallel body length of the vessel for all normal
operating draughts.
• Inspect the lifebuoy and self-igniting light and verify that the heaving line was not connected to the lifebuoy.
(as required by ICS BPG5 Checklist A4)
• Request that the pilot boarding illumination is switched on and demonstrated as functioning.
Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
• The required level of supervision for the rigging and recovery of the pilot boarding arrangements.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The method of securing the pilot ladder and accommodation ladder to the ship’s side when rigging a
combination ladder.
• The safety precautions required when working over the side while rigging or recovering a pilot ladder or
combination ladder.
Interview a deck rating to verify their understanding of the process to rig and recover the pilot boarding arrangement
especially as it related to working over the side.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for the safe rigging of the pilot boarding arrangements.
• The manufacturer’s certificates for each pilot ladder.
• The manufacturer’s repair instructions, where provided.
• The maintenance records for each pilot ladder which included the date the ladder was put in service.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for the safe rigging of the pilot boarding arrangements.
• An inspected pilot ladder was found:
o Without any identification to connect it to its manufacturer’s certificate or maintenance records.
o With defects or arrangements which were specifically identified as unacceptable on BPG Checklist
A4.
o Constructed with materials or in a manner that did not comply with BPG Checklist A4.
o Without manufacturer’s certificates or maintenance records.
o To have been repaired in a manner which did not conform to the manufacturer’s instructions.
• The pilot access arrangements did not conform to the requirements of BPG Checklist A4.
• The pilot boarding position was not within the parallel body length of the vessel for all normal operating
draughts.
• Where a combination ladder was required due to the vessel’s freeboard, the means to secure the pilot
ladder and the accommodation ladder to the ship’s side was missing or broken.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for rigging and recovering the pilot
boarding arrangements.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the pilot boarding arrangements provided.
• An interviewed deck rating was unfamiliar with the process to safely rig and recover the pilot boarding
arrangements.
• An item of equipment related to the pilot boarding arrangement was found to be missing or defective.
• The pilot boarding illumination was defective.
• The pilot ladder securing arrangement did not ensure that the weight of the pilot ladder was supported by
the side ropes.
• The gateway in the rails or bulwark opened outwards, did not have a means to hold it open or impeded the
safe passage of the pilot when embarking or disembarking.
• The deck area in the vicinity of the pilot boarding area did not have a non-slip finish.
• Where a pilot boarding arrangement was in the rigged condition during the inspection it was observed to be
rigged in a manner that did not conform to ICS BPG5 Checklist A4 or the vessel’s pilot boarding
arrangement rigging drawings.
• A damaged or retired pilot ladder was retained onboard but was not clearly marked to prevent its use for
either pilot transfer or any other purpose
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
