## Question 5.11.1

**Paragraph Number:**
5.11.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures addressing
the management of samples of bunker fuel oil and Annex I and/or Annex II cargoes as
applicable, and were samples being properly stored and eventually disposed of?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck, Chief Engineer's Office
Publications
IMO: MEPC/Circ.864/Rev.1 2019 Guidelines for on board sampling for the verification of the sulphur content of the
fuel used on board ships.
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IBC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
IMO: Resolution MEPC.96(47) Guidelines for the sampling of fuel oil for determination of compliance with Annex VI of
MARPOL 73/78

---

### **Objective**
To ensure cargo and bunker samples are safely stored on board and properly disposed of in a timely
manner.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, company procedures addressing the management of samples of bunker
fuel oil and Annex I and/or Annex II cargoes as applicable.
• Review the records of bunker fuel oil and cargo samples and Oil Record Book Part II or Cargo Record Book
as applicable.
• Inspect the designated space(s) for storing samples.
• During the course of the inspection, note any samples stored outside the designated space(s) for storing
samples.
• Interview the responsible officer to verify their familiarity with company procedures addressing the
management of samples of bunker fuel oil and Annex I and/or Annex II cargoes as applicable.
The responsible officer can be any officer nominated by the Master to review the onboard sample management
during an inspection.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Company procedures addressing the management of samples of bunker fuel oil and Annex I and/or Annex II
cargoes as applicable.
• Records of bunker fuel oil and cargo samples.
• Oil Record Book Part II or Cargo Record Book as applicable.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures addressing the management of bunker fuel oil and Annex I and/or
Annex II cargo samples as applicable, including:
o Marking/labelling of samples.
o Storage arrangements.
o Records to be kept.
• The responsible officer was not familiar with the company procedures addressing the management of
bunker fuel oil or Annex I and/or Annex II cargo samples, as appropriate.
• The designated storage space(s) for samples was:
o Insufficient for the quantity of samples being retained.
o Accessible from the accommodation.
o Not within the cargo area for MARPOL Annex II samples.
o Subject to high temperatures.
o Inadequately ventilated.
o Not protected by a fixed firefighting system or readily available portable firefighting equipment.
• Samples were:
o Stored outside the designated storage space(s).
o Retained beyond the period indicated in the company procedures.
o Not disposed of as required by the company procedures.
• Bunker fuel oil samples were not marked as required by MEPC.96(47) or MEPC.1/Circ.864/rev.1 as
appropriate.
• Annex I cargo samples were not marked as required by company procedures.
• Annex II cargo samples were not marked as recommended in the ICS Tanker Safety Guide.
• A log was not kept of all:
o bunker fuel oil samples.
o cargo samples.
• The disposal of cargo samples had not been recorded in the Oil Record Book Part II or Cargo Record Book
as applicable.
• The disposal of bunker samples had not been recorded in the Oil Record Book Part 1.
• The design of a sample locker did not ensure that sample bottles were securely stored and protected from
damage.
• Annex II cargo samples that might react dangerously with one another were not separated in the sample
locker.
• Inhibited Annex II cargo samples had been retained on board beyond the period that the inhibitor remained
active, as stated on the inhibitor certificate.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
5.12. Safety Equipment
