## Question 5.12.1

**Paragraph Number:**
5.12.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the company procedures that
addressed the use of respiratory protective equipment during cargo operations, and did
the procedures prohibit the use of filter type respirators for this purpose?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the correct respiratory protective equipment is worn during cargo operations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the use of respiratory protective equipment
during cargo operations.
• During the course of the inspection, observe any respiratory protective equipment in use during cargo
operations.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with company procedures for the use of
respiratory protective equipment during cargo operations.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the use of respiratory protective equipment during cargo operations.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the use of respiratory protective equipment during cargo operations.
• The company procedures for the use of respiratory protective equipment during cargo operations did not
prohibit the use of filter type respirators during cargo operations.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the use of respiratory protective
equipment during cargo operations.
• Filter type respirators were observed being used by crew members involved in cargo operations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
