## Question 5.12.2

**Paragraph Number:**
5.12.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the location and operation of
the decontamination showers and eyewash stations on deck, and were these facilities
suitably marked, easily accessible and ready for use?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Chemical, LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
IMO: IBC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the decontamination showers and eyewash stations provided on deck are always ready to use in
an emergency.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which ensures that decontamination showers
and eye wash stations on deck are ready for use.
• Inspect the decontamination showers and eye wash stations, select one and,
o If the temperature is at or below freezing, verify that the selected shower or eye wash was not
frozen.
o If the temperature was high with strong sunlight, verify that the selected shower or eye wash was
not scalding hot.
• Where necessary, review the records of inspection and testing of the decontamination showers and eye
wash stations.
• Interview a rating to verify their familiarity with the location and operation of the decontamination showers
and eyewash stations.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedure which ensures that decontamination showers and eye wash stations on deck were
ready for use.
• Records of inspection and testing of the decontamination showers and eye wash stations on deck.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which ensures that decontamination showers and eye wash stations on
deck were ready for use.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• An interviewed rating was not familiar with the location and operation of the decontamination showers and
eyewash stations on deck.
• The decontamination showers and eye wash stations on deck were not
o Ready for use.
o Suitably marked.
o Easily accessible.
o Regularly inspected and tested as required by company procedures.
o Provided with insulation and a recirculation system or a fully heat-traced line.
• Sections of freshwater piping supplying the showers or eye wash stations required to be heat traced and/or
insulated were found with the insulation and/or heat tracing removed.
• The fresh water supply to a shower or eyewash station was found to be either frozen or scalding hot.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
6. Pollution Prevention
6.1. Pollution Prevention - Record Books
