## Question 5.1.19

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.19

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the emergency arrangements to pump
out the spaces forward of the collision bulkhead in the event of flooding and were these
arrangements prominently marked and in good order?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Deck Officer, Bridge, Forecastle, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IACS UI SC 179 Dewatering of forward spaces of bulk carriers (Resolution MSC.188(79))

---

### **Objective**
To ensure forward ballast tanks and dry spaces on OBO and Ore-Oil combination carriers can be pumped
out safely in the event of flooding.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures to pump out the spaces forward of the collision
bulkhead in the event of flooding.
• Inspect the arrangements to pump out the spaces forward of the collision bulkhead including:
o Bilge wells, suctions etc. in the forecastle spaces.
o Remote controls at the navigation bridge, engine control room or enclosed space accessible from
the bridge or engine control room without traversing exposed freeboard or superstructure decks.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their understanding of how the forward spaces would be
pumped out in an emergency utilising the system provided onboard. This should include the sequence of
opening and closing valves and starting the appropriate pump.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures to pump out the spaces forward of the collision bulkhead in the event of flooding.
• The shipboard emergency response plan for forecastle space flooding.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures to pump out the spaces forward of the collision bulkhead in the event of
flooding.
• There was no shipboard emergency response plan for forecastle space flooding.
• The company procedures to pump out the spaces forward of the collision bulkhead in the event of flooding
were not ship specific.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with company procedures to pump out the spaces forward of the
collision bulkhead in the event of flooding.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The condition of the arrangements to pump out the spaces forward of the collision bulkhead in the event of
flooding was unsatisfactory in any respect which might make the operation difficult or impossible in an
emergency, such as:
o The suction wells in the forecastle dry spaces were obstructed by stores, ropes etc.
o Bilge wells were not provided with gratings or strainers that would prevent blockage of the
dewatering system with debris.
o Access to the remote controls was obstructed.
• The remote controls for the arrangements to pump out the spaces forward of the collision bulkhead were
not:
o At the bridge, engine control room or in a location which was accessible from the bridge or engine
control room without traversing exposed freeboard or superstructure decks.
o Prominently marked as to their purpose.
• The arrangements to pump out the spaces forward of the collision bulkhead in the event of flooding were
defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
5.2. Fixed Fire Protection Systems
