## Question 5.1.15

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.15

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the shipboard emergency
response plan for recovery of persons from the water, and had drills taken place to test
the effectiveness of the shipboard emergency response plan in accordance with
company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Rating, Documentation, Bridge
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1447 Guidelines for the development of plans and procedures for recovery of persons from the
water.
ICS: Recovery of persons from the water. Guidelines for the development of plans and procedures.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the crew will be able to safely recover persons from the water in accordance with the vessel's
shipboard emergency response plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the shipboard emergency response plan for recovery of persons from
the water
• Review the records of completed recovery from the water drills and verify that:
o The latest drill had been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
o The details of the drill had been recorded in the defined format required by the company procedure.
o The date and time of the latest drill was consistent with the vessel’s activities as recorded within the
Bridge Log Book.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview one rating and verify that they were familiar with the recovery of persons from the water plan and
their expected role in such an emergency response.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The shipboard emergency response plan for the recovery of persons from the water.
• The records for completed recovery of persons from the water drills.
• The vessel’s Bridge Log Book for the previous twelve months.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions, communications with the company
relating to the deferment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no shipboard emergency response plan for the recovery of persons from the water available.
• The shipboard emergency response plan for the recovery of persons from the water was insufficiently ship-
specific.
• The drill records were not maintained in the format defined by the company procedure.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the shipboard emergency response plan for the recovery of
persons from the water.
• An interviewed deck rating was unfamiliar with the recovery of persons from the water plan and their
expected role in such an emergency response.
• The drill scenario was unrealistic or inadequate to test the shipboard emergency response plan for the
recovery of persons from the water.
• Drill dates were inconsistent with the vessel activities as recorded within the Bridge Log Book.
• The emergency response drill for recovery of persons from the water required by the company procedures
was overdue or had not been completed in accordance with the defined drill schedule.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions and the vessel had notified the
company, record as a comment within the Process response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
