## Question 5.1.14

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.14

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the shipboard emergency
response plan for man overboard, including the launching and recovering the rescue
boat, and had drills taken place to test the effectiveness of the shipboard emergency
response plan in accordance with company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge, Interview - Deck Officer, Interview - Deck Rating
Publications
OCIMF: Survival Craft – A Seafarer’s Guide
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1206/Rev.1 Measures to prevent accidents with lifeboats.
IMO/ICAO International aeronautical and maritime search and rescue manual (IAMSAR) Vol III

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the crew will respond effectively to a man overboard situation in accordance with the vessel’s
shipboard emergency response plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the shipboard emergency response plan for man overboard.
• Sight, and where necessary review, the ship specific procedure for launching and recovering the rescue
boat as part of a drill.
• Review the records of completed man overboard and rescue boat launching drills and verify that:
o The latest drill(s) had been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
o The details of the drill(s) had been recorded in the defined format required by the company
procedure.
o The date and time of the latest drill(s) were consistent with the vessel’s activities as recorded within
the Bridge Log Book.
• Interview one navigation officer and verify they were familiar with the ship specific procedure for the
launching and subsequent recovery of the rescue boat.
• Interview one rating and verify that they were familiar with their role as identified in the muster list during a
man overboard situation.
If the vessel had exercised the man overboard and rescue boat launching elements of the man overboard emergency
response drill separately, consider the records of both elements when reviewing the evidence and assessing the
familiarity of the interviewed officer/rating.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The shipboard emergency response plan for man overboard.
• The ship specific procedure for launching and recovering the rescue boat as part of a drill.
• The records for completed man overboard and rescue boat launching drills.
• The vessel’s Bridge Log Book for the previous six months.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions, communications with the company
relating to the postponement.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no emergency response plan for man overboard.
• There was no ship specific procedure for launching and recovering the rescue boat as part of a drill.
• The shipboard procedures were insufficiently ship-specific.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the shipboard emergency response plan for man overboard.
• An interviewed navigation officer was unfamiliar with the ship-specific procedure for launching and
recovering the rescue boat during a drill.
• An interviewed rating was unfamiliar with their role, as defined by the muster list, during a man overboard
situation.
• The drill records were not maintained in the format defined by the company procedure.
• The man overboard drill scenario was unrealistic or inadequate to test the shipboard emergency plan.
• Drill dates were inconsistent with the vessel activities as recorded within the Bridge Log Book.
• The emergency response drills for man overboard and launching the rescue boat required by the company
procedures and SOLAS regulation were overdue or had not been completed in accordance with the defined
drill schedule.
• Where a rescue boat launching and recovery drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions
and the vessel had notified the company, record as a comment within the Process response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
