## Question 5.1.9

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.9

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the shipboard emergency plan for
grounding, and had drills taken place to test the effectiveness of the shipboard
emergency response plan in accordance with company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge, Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO Resolution A.1072(28) Revised guidelines for a structure of an integrated system of contingency planning for
shipboard emergencies.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the crew will respond effectively to a grounding situation in accordance with the vessel’s
shipboard emergency response plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the shipboard emergency response plan for a grounding situation.
• Review the records of completed grounding emergency response drills and verify that:
o The latest drill had been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
o The details of the drill had been recorded in the defined format required by the company procedure.
o The date and time of the latest drill was consistent with the vessel’s activities as recorded within the
Bridge Log Book.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The shipboard emergency response plan for a grounding situation.
• The records for completed grounding emergency response drills.
• The vessel’s Bridge Log Book for the previous twelve months.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions, communications with the company
relating to the deferment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no shipboard emergency plan developed for a grounding situation.
• The shipboard emergency plan was insufficiently ship-specific.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The shipboard emergency plan for grounding did not consider:
o Assessing a grounding situation and gathering data for evaluation by a specialist technical advisor
on its impact on buoyancy, stability and structural strength and the later decisions on mitigating
actions.
o Preserving ECDIS and VDR evidence.
o Communications with the company and third parties.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the shipboard emergency plan for a grounding situation.
• The drill records were not maintained in the format defined by the company procedure.
• The drill scenario was unrealistic or inadequate to test the shipboard emergency plan.
• Drill dates were inconsistent with the vessel activities as recorded within the Bridge Log Book.
• The emergency response drill for a grounding situation required by the company onboard emergency
response procedure was overdue or had not been completed in accordance with the defined drill schedule.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions and the vessel had notified the
company, record as a comment within the Process response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
