## Question 5.1.5

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and Ship Security Officer (SSO) familiar with the vessel’s Ship
Security Plan (SSP), and had drills taken place to test the effectiveness of the measures
and procedures specified by the Ship Security Plan?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Interview - Security Officer
Publications
Industry : BMP5 Best Management Practices to Deter Piracy and Enhance Maritime Security in the Red Sea
Gulf of Aden
Indian Ocean and Arabian Sea
Industry: BMP West Africa. Best Management Practices to Deter Piracy and Enhance Maritime Security off the Coast
of West Africa including the Gulf of Guinea. 1st Edition.
IMO: Guide to Maritime Security and the ISPS Code 2012 edition
IMO: ISPS Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the crew will respond effectively to a security threat in accordance with the vessel’s Ship
Security Plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight the schedule of security drills or exercises required to be conducted in accordance with the Ship
Security Plan (SSP) and identified within the drill schedule.
• Do not request to sight either the SSP or the security contingency plans.
• Review the records of completed security drills or exercises and verify that:
o The latest drill or exercise had been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
o All drill or exercise scenarios required to be undertaken by the SSP had been completed within the
time frame defined by the company.
o The details of the drill or exercise had been recorded in the defined format required by the
company procedure.
o The date and time of the latest drill was consistent with the vessel’s activities as recorded within the
Bridge Log Book.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The schedule of security drills or exercises required to be carried out by the Ship Security Plan.
• The records for completed security drills or exercises.
• The vessel’s Bridge Log Book for the previous twelve months.
• Where a drill or exercise had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions, communications with the
company relating to the deferment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no schedule of security drills or exercises required to be undertaken by the Ship Security Plan
(SSP).
• The Master or Ship Security Officer was unfamiliar with security drills or exercises required to be undertaken
to test the effectiveness of the SSP and its contingency plans.
• The drill records were not maintained in the format defined by the company procedure.
• Drill or exercise dates were inconsistent with the vessel activities as recorded within the Bridge Log Book.
• The latest security drill or exercise was overdue for completion.
• Security drill or exercise scenarios required to be undertaken according to the company drill schedule had
not been completed within the defined time frame.
• Where the ship had entered a High Risk Area in the last twelve months, suitable security drills had not been
conducted with the SPM (Ship Protection Measures) in place, prior to entering the High Risk Area.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions and the vessel had notified the
company, record as a comment within the Process response tool.
The ships security plan is confidential and approved by flag state. Where the master advises that the ship security
plan and any other plans relating to security are confidential, the inspector should only confirm their existence by
inspection of the front cover.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
The inspector should address the question based on those documents and records that are not considered
confidential in conjunction with the explanations of the accompanying officer.
Where a comment is required to support an observation, it must not provide any detail relating to the content of plans
or risk assessments that are reported as confidential.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
