## Question 5.1.1

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the onboard emergency response plans,
and were records available to demonstrate that all mandatory and company defined
emergency drills had been completed and documented as required by company
procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge, Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO Resolution A.1072(28) Revised guidelines for a structure of an integrated system of contingency planning for
shipboard emergencies.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that vessel staff can manage onboard emergencies through a consistent and structured process.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which defined:
o The requirement to conduct emergency response drills.
o The requirement to record the outcome of an emergency response drill in a consistent manner.
o The requirement to track the completion of completed drills to ensure that mandatory and company
required drills were completed within the required time frame.
o The actions to take if a drill could not be completed within the required timeframe.
• Review the records of completed onboard emergency response drills and verify that each required drill had
been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
This question is designed to gain an overview of the drills required to be conducted onboard and the process for
recording the planning and outcome from drills. Supplementary rotational questions will be assigned to investigate the
conduct of drills in detail.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which defined the requirements to conduct onboard emergency response drills,
record the outcome and track drills to ensure completion within the defined time frame.
• The vessel’s system of shipboard emergency contingency plans.
• The tracking records for completed onboard emergency response drills.
• Where a drill had not been completed within the defined time frame, communications with the company
describing the reasons for deferment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which defined the requirements to conduct onboard emergency response
drills, record the outcome and track drills to ensure completion within the defined time frame.
• There was no uniform system of shipboard emergency contingency plans available.
• There was no requirement to record the details of a drill which included:
o The contingency plan(s) used for a drill.
o The drill scenario.
o Any safety considerations for conducting the drill.
o A summary of the drill activities.
o The equipment used or demonstrated during the drill.
o Any lessons learnt from the drill.
o Any training requirements identified during the drill.
o Any areas for improvement to the contingency plan identified during the drill (and communicated to
the company).
o Any supplementary information that must be attached to the drill record, such as, risk assessments,
permits etc.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the system of shipboard emergency contingency plans.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for conducting drills, recording the
details of drills and what to do if a drill could not be completed within the required due date.
• There was no schedule of emergency response drills required to be conducted on board to test the
shipboard contingency plans.
• The schedule of drills was not aligned with the requirements of ISM, SOLAS, MARPOL, IGC, IGF or ISPS.
• Drills were overdue for completion.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions and, the vessel operator had
acknowledged the vessel’s notification of a postponement, record as a comment in the Process response
tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
