## Question 5.1.7

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.7

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the shipboard emergency plan for a
cargo vapour or liquid release, Including potential fire, and had drills taken place to test
the effectiveness of the shipboard emergency response plan in accordance with
company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the crew will respond effectively to a cargo vapour or liquid release, including potential fire, in
accordance with the vessel’s shipboard emergency response plans.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the shipboard emergency plans for cargo vapour or liquid release,
Including potential fire.
• Review the records of completed cargo vapour or liquid release drills and verify that:
o The required drills had been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
o The details of the drill had been recorded in the defined format required by the company procedure.
o The date and time of the latest drill was consistent with the vessel’s activities as recorded within the
Bridge Log Book.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The shipboard emergency response plans for a cargo vapour or liquid release.
• The records for completed cargo vapour or liquid release drills.
• The vessel’s Bridge Log Book for the previous 12 months.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no shipboard emergency plans for a cargo vapour or liquid release available.
• The shipboard emergency plans for cargo vapour or liquid release were insufficiently ship-specific.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the shipboard emergency plans for cargo vapour or liquid
release.
• The drill records were not maintained in the format defined by the company procedure.
• The drill scenario was unrealistic or inadequate to test the shipboard emergency plan.
• Drill dates were inconsistent with the vessel activities as recorded within the Bridge Log Book.
• The latest drill for cargo vapour or liquid release was overdue for completion.
• One or more of the emergency response plans for cargo vapour or liquid release scenarios had not been
exercised during a drill within the previous 12 months.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions and the vessel had notified the
company, record as a comment within the Process response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
