## Question 5.1.11

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.11

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the shipboard emergency plan for
failure of electrical power, and had drills taken place to test the effectiveness of the
shipboard emergency response plan in accordance with company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Deck Officer, Interview - Engineer Officer, Documentation, Bridge, Engine Control Room
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: Peril at Sea and Salvage – A Guide for Masters. Sixth Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO Resolution A.1072(28) Revised guidelines for a structure of an integrated system of contingency planning for
shipboard emergencies.
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the crew will respond effectively to a failure of electrical power in accordance with the
vessel’s shipboard emergency response plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the shipboard emergency response plan for a failure of electrical power.
• Review the records of completed failure of electrical power emergency response drills and verify that:
o The latest drill had been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
o The details of the drill had been recorded in the defined format required by the company procedure.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The date and time of the latest drill was consistent with the vessel’s activities as recorded within the
Bridge Log Book.
• Interview one navigation officer and verify that they were familiar with a method for estimating the predicted
drift of a disabled tanker taking into account the wind, current and ship’s head.
• Interview one engineer officer and verify that they were familiar with the failure of electrical power
emergency response plan including shipboard procedures for recovering after a blackout.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The shipboard emergency response plan for the failure of electrical power including any supplementary
engineering procedures referenced by the plan.
• The records for completed failure of electrical power emergency response drills.
• The vessel’s Bridge Log Book for the previous twelve months.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions, communications with the company
relating to the deferment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no shipboard emergency plan for the failure of electrical power available.
• The shipboard emergency plan was insufficiently ship-specific.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the shipboard emergency plan for the failure of electrical
power.
• An interviewed navigation officer was unfamiliar with the process of estimating the predicted drift of a
disabled tanker taking into account the wind, current and ship’s head.
• An interviewed engineer officer was unfamiliar with the location and content of the vessel’s failure of
electrical power emergency response plan.
• The drill records were not maintained in the format defined by the company procedure.
• The drill scenario was unrealistic or inadequate to test the shipboard emergency plan.
• Drill dates were inconsistent with the vessel activities as recorded within the Bridge Log Book.
• The emergency response drill for a failure of electrical power required by the company onboard emergency
response procedure was overdue or had not been completed in accordance with the defined drill schedule.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions and the vessel had notified the
company, record as a comment within the Process response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
