## Question 5.1.2

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the shipboard emergency plans for the
principal fire scenarios for the vessel type, and had drills taken place to test the
effectiveness of the plans in accordance with the company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge, Cargo Control Room
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
OCIMF/ICS: Peril at Sea and Salvage – A Guide for Masters. Sixth Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO Resolution A.1072(28) Revised guidelines for a structure of an integrated system of contingency planning for
shipboard emergencies.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the crew will respond to a fire situation in accordance with the vessel’s shipboard emergency
response plans.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the shipboard emergency response plans for the principal fire scenarios
which were appropriate to the vessel type, which should include:
o Fire on the cargo deck.
o Fire in a cargo tank.
o Fire in the main machinery space.
o Fire in the cargo pump room or compressor room.
o Fire in the accommodation.
o Fire in a store-room.
o Fire in the galley.
• Review the records of completed fire drills and verify that:
o The required drills had been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
o The details of the drill had been recorded in the defined format required by the company procedure.
o The date and time of the latest drill was consistent with the vessel’s activities as recorded within the
Bridge Log Book.
o Each of the emergency response plans for fire scenarios applicable to the vessel type had been
exercised within the previous six months.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The shipboard emergency response plans for the principal fire scenarios as applicable to the vessel type.
• The records for completed fire drills during the previous six months.
• The vessel’s Bridge Log Book for the previous six months.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions, communications with the company
relating to the deferment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no shipboard emergency plan available for fire for one or more of the principal fire scenarios
applicable to the vessel type.
• The shipboard emergency plans for the principal fire scenarios were insufficiently ship-specific.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the shipboard emergency plans for the principal fire scenarios
applicable to the vessel.
• The drill records were not maintained in the format defined by the company procedure.
• The drill scenarios were unrealistic or inadequate to test the shipboard emergency plans for the principal fire
scenarios applicable to the vessel type.
• Drill dates were inconsistent with the vessel activities as recorded within the bridge Log Book.
• One or more of the emergency response plans for the principal fire scenarios had not been exercised during
a drill within the previous six months.
• One or more emergency response drill for fire required by the company onboard emergency response
procedure was overdue or had not been completed in accordance with the defined drill schedule.
• A fire drill had not taken place within 24 hours of leaving port after a crew change that had resulted in more
than 25% of the crew having not participated in a fire drill on that ship within the previous month.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions and the vessel had notified the
company, record as a comment within the Process response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
