## Question 5.1.16

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.16

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the shipboard emergency plans for
flooding, and had drills taken place to test the effectiveness of the shipboard emergency
response plans in accordance with company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge, Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO Resolution A.1072(28) Revised guidelines for a structure of an integrated system of contingency planning for
shipboard emergencies.
OCIMF/ICS: Peril at Sea and Salvage – A Guide for Masters. Sixth Edition.
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the crew will respond effectively to a flooding situation in accordance with the vessel’s
shipboard emergency response plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the shipboard emergency response plans for the principal flooding
scenarios which were appropriate to the vessel type, which should include:
o Machinery space flooding.
o Pumproom flooding (where fitted).
o Forecastle space flooding.
o Hull breach/failure.
• Review the records of completed flooding emergency response drills and verify that:
o The latest drill had been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
o The details of the drill had been recorded in the defined format required by the company procedure.
o The date and time of the latest drill was consistent with the vessel’s activities as recorded within the
Bridge Log Book.
o Each of the emergency response plans for flooding scenarios applicable to the vessel type had
been exercised within the previous twelve months.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The shipboard emergency response plans for the flooding scenarios applicable to the vessel type.
• The records for completed flooding emergency response drills.
• The vessel’s Bridge Log Book for the previous twelve months.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions, communications with the company
relating to the deferment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no shipboard emergency plan available for one or more of the flooding scenarios applicable to
the vessel type.
• The shipboard emergency plans were insufficiently ship-specific.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the shipboard emergency plans for flooding situations.
• The drill records were not maintained in the format defined by the company procedure.
• The drill scenarios were unrealistic or inadequate to test the shipboard emergency plan.
• Drill dates were inconsistent with the vessel activities as recorded within the Bridge Log Book.
• One or more of the emergency response drills for a flooding scenario required by the company onboard
emergency response procedure was overdue or had not been completed in accordance with the defined drill
schedule.
Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions and the vessel had notified the company,
record as a comment within the Process response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
