## Question 5.1.4

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the shipboard emergency plan for
enclosed space rescue, and had drills taken place to test the effectiveness of the
shipboard emergency response plan in accordance with company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Deck Rating, Documentation, Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: Resolution A.1050(27) Revised Recommendations for Entering Enclosed Spaces Aboard Ships.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the crew will respond to an enclosed space rescue situation in accordance with the vessel's
shipboard emergency response plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the shipboard emergency response plan for enclosed space rescue.
• Review the records of completed enclosed space rescue drills and verify that:
o The latest drill had been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
o The details of the drill had been recorded in the defined format required by the company procedure.
o Where the drill had been conducted utilising a defined enclosed space, the permit for the space
had been attached to the drill records.
o The date and time of the latest drill was consistent with the vessel’s activities as recorded within the
Bridge Log Book.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• During the physical inspection:
o Sight the enclosed space rescue hoisting arrangement(s) provided for cargo, ballast, bunker, void
and cofferdam spaces.
o Interview an officer or rating to verify that they were familiar with the rigging and operation of the
provided hoisting arrangement(s).

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The shipboard emergency response plan for enclosed space rescue.
• The records for completed enclosed space rescue drills, supplemented by enclosed space entry permits
where appropriate.
• The vessel’s Bridge Log Book for the previous twelve months.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions, communications with the company
relating to the postponement.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no shipboard emergency plan for enclosed space rescue available.
• The shipboard emergency plan was insufficiently ship-specific.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the shipboard emergency plan for enclosed space rescue.
• An interviewed officer or rating was unfamiliar with the rigging and use of the provided enclosed space
rescue hoisting arrangement(s).
• The drill scenario was unrealistic or inadequate to test the shipboard emergency plan.
• The drill records had not been completed in accordance with the company procedures or were missing the
associated enclosed space entry permit, where required.
• Drill dates were inconsistent with the vessel activities as recorded within the Bridge Log Book.
• The emergency response drill for enclosed space rescue required by the company onboard emergency
response procedure was overdue or had not been completed in accordance with the defined drill schedule.
• The enclosed space rescue hoisting arrangements and any associated loose equipment provided for cargo,
ballast, bunker, void and cofferdam spaces was defective in any respect.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions and the vessel had notified the
company, record as a comment within the Process response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
