## Question 5.1.12

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.12

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the shipboard emergency plan for
steering gear failure, and had drills taken place to test the effectiveness of the shipboard
emergency response plan in accordance with company procedures.

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge, Steering Gear, Interview - Deck Officer
Publications
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO Resolution A.1072(28) Revised guidelines for a structure of an integrated system of contingency planning for
shipboard emergencies.
OCIMF/ICS: Peril at Sea and Salvage – A Guide for Masters. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the crew will respond effectively to a failure of the steering gear in accordance with the
vessel’s shipboard emergency response plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the shipboard emergency response plan for steering gear failure.
• Review the records of completed emergency response drills for the failure of the steering gear and verify
that:
o The latest drill had been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
o The details of the drill had been recorded in the defined format required by the company procedure.
o The drill included the testing of the emergency steering systems by direct control.
o The date and time of the latest drill was consistent with the vessel’s activities as recorded within the
Bridge Log Book.
• Interview one navigation officer and verify that they were familiar with a method for estimating the drift of a
disabled tanker taking into account the wind, current and ship’s head.
• If safe to do so, request that an accompanying officer demonstrate the operation of the emergency steering
system and describes the use of the communication system and alternative power supplies.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The shipboard emergency response plan for steering gear failure.
• The records for completed steering gear failure and emergency steering drills.
• The vessel’s Bridge Log Book for the previous six months.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions, communications with the company
relating to the deferment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The shipboard emergency plan for steering failure was insufficiently ship-specific.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the shipboard emergency plan for steering gear failure.
• An interviewed navigation officer was unfamiliar with the process for estimating a vessel’s drift rate taking
into account the wind, current and ship's head.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• An officer requested to demonstrate the operation of the emergency steering system was unfamiliar with the
operation of the emergency steering gear.
• The emergency steering gear was defective in any respect.
• The drill records were not maintained in the format defined by the company procedure.
• The drill scenario was unrealistic or inadequate to test the shipboard emergency plan.
• Drill dates were inconsistent with the vessel activities as recorded within the Bridge Log Book.
• The emergency response drill for a steering gear failure required by the company onboard emergency
response procedure was overdue or had not been completed in accordance with the defined drill schedule.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions and the vessel had notified the
company, record as a comment within the Process response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
