## Question 5.1.18

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.18

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures setting out the
actions to be taken in the event of a cargo leak into a double hull tank, and was all
required equipment available and in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Deck Officer, Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the crew can respond promptly and effectively in the event of a cargo leak into a double hull tank.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary, review the company procedures setting out the actions to be taken in the event
of a cargo leak into a double hull tank.
• During the tour of the deck, inspect the equipment required by these procedures to verify its availability,
suitable stowage and satisfactory condition.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures setting out the
actions to be taken in the event of a cargo leak into a double hull tank, and the location of the required
equipment.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Company procedures setting out the actions to be taken in the event of a cargo leak into a double hull tank.
• If available, an inventory of the equipment required by these procedures.
• Records of tests for electrical continuity of flexible hoses designated for inerting double hull tanks.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures setting out the actions to be taken in the event of a cargo leak into a
double hull tank.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures setting out the actions to be taken
in the event of a cargo leak into a double hull tank.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the location of the equipment required by company
procedures setting out the actions to be taken in the event of a cargo leak into a double hull tank.
• An item of equipment required by the company procedures setting out the actions to be taken in the event of
a cargo leak into a double hull tank was:
o not available on board.
o not stowed safely and correctly.
o defective in any respect.
• Where double-hull spaces were not permanently connected to an inert gas distribution system, there were
no flexible hoses dedicated solely to inerting double hull tanks.
• There were no records of tests for electrical continuity of the flexible hoses designated for inerting double
hull tanks.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
