## Question 5.1.13

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.13

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the shipboard emergency plan for
emergency towing, including the Emergency Towing Booklet (ETB), and had drills taken
place to test the effectiveness of the shipboard emergency response plan in accordance
with company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Cargo Control Room, Forecastle, Interview - Deck Officer, Interview - Engineer Officer
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1255 Guidelines for Owners/Operators on Preparing Emergency Towing Procedures
OCIMF/ICS: Peril at Sea and Salvage – A Guide for Masters. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the crew will respond to an emergency towing situation in accordance with the vessel’s
shipboard emergency response plan and Emergency Towing Booklet.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the Emergency Towing Booklet (ETB).
• Review the records of completed emergency towing drills and verify that:
o The latest drill had been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
o The details of the drill had been recorded in the defined format required by the company procedure.
o The date and time of the latest drill was consistent with the vessel’s activities as recorded within the
Bridge Log Book.
• Interview one navigation and one engineer officer to verify that they were familiar with the location of the
ETB and the deployment process for the emergency towing arrangements fitted to the vessel.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The shipboard Emergency Towing Booklets.
• The records for completed emergency towing drills
• The vessel’s Bridge Log Book for the previous twelve months.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions, communications with the company
relating to the deferment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no Emergency Towing Booklets available.
• Copies of the ETB were not available on the bridge, in a forecastle space or in the ship’s office or cargo
control room.
• The emergency towing procedures were insufficiently ship-specific.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the emergency towing procedures.
• An interviewed navigation or engineer officer was unfamiliar with the location of the ETB or the deployment
process for the emergency towing arrangements fitted to the vessel.
• The drill records were not maintained in the format defined by the company procedure.
• The drill scenario was unrealistic or inadequate to test the emergency towing procedures.
• Drill dates were inconsistent with the vessel activities as recorded within the Bridge Log Book.
• The emergency response drill for emergency towing required by the company onboard emergency response
procedure was overdue or had not been completed in accordance with the defined drill schedule.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions and the vessel had notified the
company, record as a comment within the Process response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
