## Question 5.1.17

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.17

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the shipboard emergency plans
regarding LNG bunker operations, and had drills taken place to test the effectiveness of
the shipboard emergency response plans in accordance with company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room, Documentation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGF Code
IACS: Rec 142. LNG Bunkering Guidelines (2016)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the crew will respond effectively to an emergency situation involving LNG bunker operations
in accordance with the vessel’s shipboard emergency response plans.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the emergency procedures contained in the fuel handling manual for
LNG bunkers.
• Review the records of completed LNG bunker related drills and verify that:
o The latest drill had been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
o All drill or exercise scenarios required to be undertaken by company procedures or the fuel
handling manual had been completed within the time frame defined by the company.
o The details of the drill had been recorded in the defined format required by the company procedure.
o The date and time of the latest drill was consistent with the vessel’s activities as recorded within the
Bridge Log Book.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s fuel handling manual for LNG bunkers.
• The emergency response plans for LNG bunkers if not contained within the fuel handling manual.
• The records for completed LNG bunker related drills.
• The vessel’s Bridge Log Book for the previous twelve months.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no fuel handling manual for LNG bunkers available.
• The fuel handling manual did not include emergency procedures.
• The emergency procedures were insufficiently ship-specific.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the emergency procedures contained in the fuel handling
manual for LNG bunkers.
• The drill records were not maintained in the format defined by the company procedure.
• The drill scenario was unrealistic or inadequate to test the shipboard emergency plan.
• Drill dates were inconsistent with the vessel activities as recorded within the Bridge Log Book.
• The latest drill was overdue for completion.
• LNG bunkering drill or exercise scenarios required to be undertaken according to the company drill schedule
had not been completed within the defined time frame.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions and the vessel had notified the
company, record as a comment within the Process response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
