## Question 5.1.3

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the vessel’s SOPEP or SMPEP, and had
drills taken place to test the effectiveness of the onboard emergency response actions
required by the Plan and company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Deck Officer, Documentation, Bridge, Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MARPOL
IMO: Guidelines for the development of Shipboard Marine Pollution Emergency Plans. 2010 edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the crew will respond effectively to a spill situation in accordance with the vessel’s Shipboard
Oil Pollution Plan (SOPEP) or Shipboard Marine Pollution Emergency Plan (SMPEP).

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the SOPEP or SMPEP.
• Sight the shipboard emergency response plans for operational cargo and bunker spills.
• Sight the list of specific contact details posted on the bridge or cargo control room.
• Review the records of completed spill response drills and verify that:
o The latest drill had been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
o The details of the drill had been recorded in the defined format required by the company procedure.
o The date and time of the latest drill was consistent with the vessel’s activities as recorded within the
Bridge Log Book.
• Interview an officer during the balance of the inspection and verify that they were familiar with their expected
duties in the event of a spill incident.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s SOPEP or SMPEP.
• The shipboard emergency response plans for defined spill situations, if not contained within the SOPEP or
SMPEP.
• The list of specific contact details for the port of inspection.
• The records for completed spill emergency response drills.
• The vessel’s Bridge Log Book for the previous twelve months.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions, communications with the company
relating to the deferment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no SOPEP or SMPEP available.
• The SOPEP or SMPEP had not been maintained up to date with national operational contact points or any
other information that may have become outdated over time or at change of management.
• The vessel had not prepared a list of specific contact details for the port of inspection.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the content of the vessel’s SOPEP or SMPEP.
• An interviewed officer was unfamiliar with their duties during a spill incident.
• The drill scenarios were unrealistic or inadequate to test the Plan.
• The drill scenarios did not cover operational spills for both cargo and bunker operations.
• Drill dates were inconsistent with the vessel activities as recorded within the Bridge Log Book.
• The emergency response drill for a spill situation required by the SOPEP, SMPEP and/or company onboard
emergency response procedure was overdue or, had not been completed in accordance with the defined
drill schedule.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions and the vessel had notified the
company, record as a comment within the Process response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
