## Question 5.1.6

**Paragraph Number:**
5.1.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the procedure for launching the
lifeboat(s), and had abandon ship drills taken place in accordance with company
procedures and the requirements of SOLAS and the Flag Administration?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Lifeboat deck, Documentation, Bridge, Interview - Deck Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1206/Rev.1 Measures to prevent accidents with lifeboats.
OCIMF: Survival Craft – A Seafarer’s Guide

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the crew were able to safely launch the vessel’s lifeboat(s) in an emergency, and conduct
abandon ship drills strictly in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions and company procedures.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the emergency procedure for abandoning ship.
• Sight, and where necessary review, the ship specific procedure for launching a lifeboat as part of a drill.
• Review the records of completed abandon ship drills and verify that:
o The latest drill had been completed within the timeframe defined by the drill schedule.
o The lifeboat(s) has been exercised and launched (simulated or actual) in accordance with SOLAS
regulation for the type of lifeboat fitted.
o The details of the drill had been recorded in the defined format required by the company procedure.
o The date and time of the latest drill was consistent with the vessel’s activities as recorded within the
Bridge Log Book.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview one rating and verify they were familiar with the ship specific procedure for the launching of the
lifeboat during an abandon ship drill.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The shipboard emergency procedure for abandoning ship.
• The ship specific procedure for launching a lifeboat as part of an abandon ship drill.
• The records for completed abandon ship drills.
• The vessel’s Bridge Log Book for the previous twelve months.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions, communications with the company
relating to the postponement.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no emergency procedure for abandoning ship.
• There was no ship specific procedure for launching a lifeboat as part of an abandon ship drill.
• The shipboard procedures were insufficiently ship-specific.
• The drill records were not maintained in the format defined by the company procedure.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the procedure for abandon ship or the launching of a lifeboat
during an abandon ship drill.
• An interviewed rating was unfamiliar with the ship specific procedure for the launching of a lifeboat during an
abandon ship drill.
• Drill dates were inconsistent with the vessel activities as recorded within the Bridge Log Book.
• The emergency response drills for abandon ship required by the company onboard emergency response
procedure and SOLAS regulation were overdue or had not been completed in accordance with the defined
drill schedule.
• Where a drill had been deferred due to poor weather or sea conditions and the vessel had notified the
company, record as a comment within the Process response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
