## Question 5.2.14

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.14

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the purpose of the cargo, ballast and
stripping pump temperature sensing devices, and was there evidence that alarm
activation points had been correctly set and tested in accordance with company
procedures and manufacturer's instructions?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Engine Room, Pumproom
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ. 1321 Guidelines for measures to prevent fires in engine-rooms and cargo pump-rooms.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that measures specifically designed to prevent fires in the cargo pump room are effective.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which defined the requirements for the
operation and maintenance of the cargo, ballast and stripping pump temperature sensing devices.
• Inspect the cargo, ballast and stripping pump temperature sensor monitoring system panel and verify that:
o The temperature monitoring system was fully operational.
o The system was not displaying any faults or obviously erroneous readings.
o The temperature indicated by sensors from different pumps in a similar service were indicating a
similar reading.
o The alarm activation settings were displayed for each sensor point.
• Review the records of cargo, ballast and stripping pump temperature sensing device readings and verify that
the records had been maintained for pumps in operation.
• If safe and practical to do, request that the alarm activation set point for one temperature sensing device is
demonstrated to be correctly set.
• Review the inspection and testing data for the cargo, ballast and stripping pump temperature sensor
monitoring system and verify that:
o The required sensor checks, and tests had been completed at the frequency defined by the
company.
o The alarm activation set points had been confirmed.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests, calibration and maintenance carried out contained
within the maintenance plan.
Where the cargo, ballast and stripping pump temperature sensing sensor device control panel was fitted in the
machinery space with no display in the cargo control room, verify that:
• The officer in charge of the cargo operations could identify the temperature sensing device alarm indicator in
the cargo control room.
• There was a process in place to record and assess the readings provided by the temperature sensing
devices fitted to pumps in operation.
When in the cargo pumproom
• Inspect one cargo, ballast or stripping pump and verify that the temperature sensing devices were
connected at the appropriate locations.
• Verify that no temporary cooling devices were rigged on any cargo, ballast or stripping pump.
• Verify that there was no leakage of cargo, either in the form of a spray or liquid, from the cargo or stripping
pump mechanical seals.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the actions required in the event of a high
temperature alarm activation.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the maintenance and operation of the cargo, ballast and stripping pump
temperature sensing system.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The records of temperature sensing device readings for cargo, ballast and stripping pumps while in
operation.
• The manufacturer’s instruction manual for the cargo, ballast and stripping pump temperature sensing
system.
• The maintenance and testing records for the cargo, ballast and stripping pump temperature sensing system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for the operation and maintenance of the cargo, ballast and stripping
pump temperature sensing system.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the operation of the cargo, ballast and stripping pump
temperature sensing system.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the alarm activation settings of the cargo, ballast and stripping
pump temperature sensing system.
• There were no records maintained for the temperature of bulkhead shaft glands, bearings and pump casings
for cargo, ballast or stripping pumps in operation.
• The temperature sensing devices had not been checked for proper operation and temperature comparison
at the frequency defined by the company.
• The audible and visual alarms in the cargo control room or pump control station had not been tested at the
frequency defined by the company.
• One or more temperature sensing devices were out of service.
• One or more alarm activation points were found to be set to activate at a higher temperature that permitted
by the company procedure.
• One or more temperature sensors were found to be disconnected from the required location.
• Temporary cooling devices were found to be in use to cool pump bearings.
• One or more cargo or stripping pump mechanical seals were leaking cargo either as a liquid or a mist.
Where there was no means to observe the temperature being measured by the temperature sensing devices in either
the cargo control room or the machinery space record the finding as a comment under the Hardware response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
