## Question 5.2.6

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the vessel’s machinery space fixed pressure water-spraying fire extinguishing system,
and was the equipment in good working order and available for immediate use, with
operating instructions clearly displayed at the control stations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room, Engine Room, Emergency Headquarters.
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1516 Amendments to the revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection
systems and appliances.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: FSS Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
IMO: MSC/Circ.1165 Revised guidelines for the approval of equivalent water-based fire-extinguishing systems for
machinery spaces and cargo pump-rooms.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Inspect the space(s) containing the fixed pressure water-spray equipment and the system controls and verify
that:
o The system operating instructions, in the working language of the ship, were posted near the
control station.
o The system valves were clearly identified, and the system instructions indicated their required
status in the standby and operational conditions.
o The system was maintained at the correct pressure.
o Inlet and outlet valves were correctly set.
• Review inspection and servicing data available in the space.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out contained in the
maintenance plan, including quarterly system water quality assessments.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose and operation of the fixed
pressure water-spraying fire extinguishing system or the equivalent water mist fire extinguishing system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for vessel’s fire protection systems and firefighting systems and appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the machinery space fixed pressure water-
spraying fire extinguishing system, including quarterly system water quality assessments.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The machinery space fixed pressure water-spraying fire-extinguishing system or the equivalent water mist
fire-extinguishing system release procedure, operating instructions and warning notices were not posted at
the release stations in the working language of the ship.
• The valves and/or system controls were not clearly identified to their purpose and required status during
system operation.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and firefighting systems and
appliances available.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and firefighting systems and appliances did
not include the vessel’s fixed pressure water-spraying fire extinguishing system or the equivalent water mist
fire extinguishing system or, all the required inspections, tests and maintenance.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• There were no records of quarterly system water quality assessments, or records showed the system
contents did not meet the manufacturers’ water quality guidelines.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose and operation of the vessel’s fixed pressure
water-spraying fire extinguishing system or the equivalent water mist fire extinguishing system
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and firefighting systems and appliances.
• Inspection of the vessel’s fixed pressure water-spraying fire extinguishing system or the equivalent water
mist fire extinguishing system indicated that actions recorded in the maintenance plan had not in fact taken
place.
• The machinery space fixed pressure water-spraying fire extinguishing system or the equivalent water mist
fire extinguishing system was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
