## Question 5.2.12

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.12

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the fixed fire-extinguishing system in the vessel’s paint locker and any other flammable
liquid locker, and was the system in good working order and available for immediate
use?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Exterior Decks
Publications
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
IACS: UI SC199 Fire-fighting systems in cargo sampling lockers (Reg II-2/10.6.3.2)
IMO: ISM Code
IACS: UI SC201 Location of paint lockers within cargo block

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Inspect the vessel’s paint locker, and any other flammable liquid locker, including the fixed fire-extinguishing
system, where fitted, and verify that:
o The instructions for releasing the fixed fire extinguishing system were posted outside the space.
o Ventilation fan controls and closing devices were clearly marked.
o Where no fixed extinguishing system was provided that the inlet for the provided portable
extinguisher was marked.
o Where a fixed carbon dioxide system was provided, a sign warning against using carbon dioxide to
inert the space due to static ignition hazard was posted outside the space.
o Where a seawater fixed extinguishing system was fitted, spray nozzles were free from salt build up.
o Where a seawater fixed extinguishing system was fitted, the content of the store was not stacked
above the height of the spray nozzles.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose and operation of the fixed fire
extinguishing system.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out contained in the
maintenance plan.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the paint or flammable liquid locker fixed
fire extinguishing systems.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no instructions posted outside a paint or flammable liquids locker describing the use of the fixed
fire extinguishing system provided.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose and operation of the fixed fire extinguishing
system in a paint or other flammable liquid locker.
• Paints or flammable liquids were found stored in lockers or locations not designed to contain flammable
liquids.
• Paints or flammable liquids were stored in open containers
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include the fixed fire extinguishing system for paint and flammable liquid lockers or all the required
inspections, tests and maintenance.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances available.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the fixed fire-extinguishing system indicated that actions recorded in the plan had not in fact
taken place.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Storage of items in a paint or flammable liquids locker prevented the proper functioning of the fire
extinguishing system provided, for example, stored paint tins were stacked above the level of water spray
nozzles.
• Access to the controls of a paint or flammable liquid locker fire extinguishing system were obstructed.
• The fixed fire extinguishing system for the paint locker, or any other flammable liquids locker, was defective
in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
