## Question 5.2.2

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and crew familiar with the location, purpose, testing and
operation of the vessel’s fire dampers, the means of closing the main inlets and outlets
of all ventilation systems and the means of stopping the power ventilation systems from
outside the space served?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Engineer Officer, Exterior Decks, Forecastle, Aft Mooring Deck, Emergency Headquarters., Interview -
Rating
Publications
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1434 Unified interpretations of SOLAS chapter II-2
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the vessel specific list of closing devices for ventilation inlets or outlets
and their required status while conducting cargo operations.
• Inspect a representative sample of ventilation closing devices found onboard and verify that they were in
good order, operating freely and clearly marked with:
o The spaces they served.
o Their open/shut positions.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Any required warning notices e.g. battery lockers.
o Their required position when conducting cargo operations.
• Sight the remote stops for accommodation and machinery space fans and verify that the items served by
each remote stop were clearly identified.
• Where necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out in the maintenance
plan, confirm fan stops have been tested as required by the company procedure.
• Interview one officer and one rating to verify their familiarity, subject to their normal operational and
emergency duties, with the location, purpose and operation of the vessel’s fire dampers, skylights, closing
devices and remote fan stops.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on fire dampers, skylights, closing devices
and remote fan stops.
• The vessel specific list of closing devices for ventilation inlets or outlets and their required status while
conducting cargo operations.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The Master, officers or crew were not familiar with the location, purpose and operation of the vessel’s fire
dampers, skylights, closing devices or remote fan stops.
• Closing devices did not operate freely.
• Closing devices were ineffective due to corrosion, worn gaskets, seized dogs etc.
• Closing devices were not clearly marked with the spaces they served or their open/shut positions.
• Closing devices were not marked with required warning notices e.g. battery lockers.
• Closing devices were not marked with the required position when conduction cargo operations.
• An interviewed officer or rating was not familiar with the required position of each closing device while
conducting cargo operations.
• Access to closing devices or fan stops was obstructed.
• Remote operated closing devices were found to be inhibited or prevented from closing fully by obstructions.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include fire dampers, skylights, closing devices and remote fan stops or all the required inspections,
tests and maintenance.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances available.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the vessel’s fire dampers, skylights, closing devices and remote fan stops indicated that
actions recorded in the plan had not in fact taken place.
• The vessel’s fire dampers, skylights, closing devices or remote fan stops were defective in any way.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
