## Question 5.2.15

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.15

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the purpose and operation of
the vessel’s deck foam system, including portable applicators, and was the system in
good working order and available for immediate use, with operating instructions
displayed at the control station?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Main Deck, Cargo Manifold, Emergency Headquarters., Interview - Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: FSS Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1312 Revised guidelines for the performance and testing criteria
and survey of foam concentrates for fixed fire-extinguishing systems.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Inspect the space(s) containing the deck foam system foam concentrate tanks(s), pump(s) and the system
controls and verify that:
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The system operating instructions, in the working language of the ship, were posted near the
control station.
o The system valves were clearly identified, and the system instructions indicated their required
status in the standby and operational conditions.
o A copy of the foam concentrate annual test certificate indicated that it was fit for continued use.
o The foam contained in the tank was certified as compatible with the cargo being carried.
o The foam tank was filled to the required level
• Review inspection and servicing data available in the space.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out contained in the
maintenance plan, including:
o The annual foam concentrate test results.
o The five-yearly test of foam proportioners or other foam mixing devices.
• Inspect the deck main and/or foam main, monitors, applicators and isolating valves.
• Where safe to do so, operate a sample of isolating valves and monitors to verify that they are free to move
through their full range.
• Where the foam concentrate was not effective, or incompatible, with the cargo being carried, establish what
additional arrangements had been provided and that they had been verified as being to the satisfaction of
the Administration.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose and operation of the deck foam
system with reference to:
o Extinguishing spill fires.
o Precluding ignition of spilt oil, not yet ignited.
o Combating fires in ruptured tanks.
• Interview a rating and verify their familiarity with the operation and use of foam applicators and foam
monitors.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the deck foam system, including:
o The annual foam concentrate test results.
o The five-yearly test of foam proportioners or other foam mixing devices.
• The system manual showing the quantity of foam concentrate required to be in the storage tank to meet the
system design criteria.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The deck foam system operating instructions, in the working language of the ship, were not posted in the
space containing the foam concentrate tank, pumps and control station.
• The valves and/or system controls were not clearly identified to their purpose and required status during
system operation.
• The foam storage tank was not filled to the required level.
• The foam concentrate test had not been carried out within the required time frame.
• The foam concentrate test certificate indicated that the foam was not fit for continued use.
• The foam concentrate was incompatible with the cargo being carried but no alternative arrangement, to the
satisfaction of the Flag Administration, had been provided.
• The foam proportioners or other foam mixing devices had not been tested as required during five yearly
servicing
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose and operation of the vessel’s deck foam fire
extinguishing system, including portable applicators.
• An interviewed rating was not familiar with the operation and use of the foam monitors and/or foam
applicators.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances available.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include the vessel’s deck foam system or all the required inspections, tests and maintenance.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete, including the required foam
concentrate tests.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• Inspection of the vessel’s deck foam system indicated that actions recorded in the plan had not in fact taken
place.
• The deck foam system isolation valves or monitors were not free to move through their full range of motion.
• Foam applicators prepared at the manifold were connected to the fire main rather than the foam main.
• The deck foam system was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
