## Question 5.2.13

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.13

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the machinery space fixed water-based or equivalent local application fire-fighting
system, and was the equipment in good working order and readily available for
immediate use, with operating instructions clearly displayed at the control stations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Engine Room, Steering Gear, Emergency Headquarters.
Publications
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1516 Amendments to the revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection
systems and appliances.
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1387 Revised guidelines for the approval of fixed water-based local application fire-fighting systems
for use in category A machinery spaces.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which described the use of the automatic
release mode of the fixed water-based local application fire-fighting system, where this function was
provided.
• Inspect the components of the fixed water-based local application fire-fighting system and verify that:
o The system operating instructions were posted at the control stations in the operating language of
the ship.
o The water supply valves were open to the system.
o The dedicated tank serving the system was fitted with a low-level alarm or marked with the
minimum required level.
o All manual branch supply valves were open and marked or colour coded to identify the location
they protected.
o The control panel was powered and set for automatic and/or remote operation.
o The local release stations near to the protected equipment were clearly marked as to their purpose.
o The remote monitoring/control panels in the wheelhouse and other locations were powered on with
all smoke, flame and heat detectors active.
• Review inspection and servicing data available at the main pump unit.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out contained in the
maintenance plan.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation and required release
mode of the fixed water-based local application fire-fighting system whilst the machinery space was
operated in the attended and unattended state.
Where the vessel was fitted with a machinery space fixed local application fire-fighting system which was not water-
based, address the inspector actions and subsequent sections on equivalency.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the fixed water-based local application fire-
fighting system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which described the use of the automatic release mode of the fixed
water-based local application fire-fighting system where this function was provided.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose, operation and required operating mode of the
system.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• There were no operating instructions in the working language of the ship posted at the system control
stations.
• The system was not set on automatic release mode when required by the company procedure.
• The machinery space was being operated in the unattended mode with the system in manual release mode.
• The system was not ready for immediate activation either automatically or by manual release, locally or
remotely, for any reason.
• The dedicated water supply tank was not fitted with a low-level alarm, or the minimum required operating
level was not marked and maintained.
• The water supply valves, or individual manual branch discharge valves were closed.
• System smoke, heat or flame detectors were deactivated.
• The local release stations near to the protected equipment were not clearly marked as to their purpose.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include the vessel’s fixed water-based local application fire-fighting system.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the vessel’s fixed water-based local application fire-fighting system indicated that actions
recorded in the maintenance plan had not been carried out.
• The fixed water-based local application fire-fighting system was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
