## Question 5.2.8

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.8

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and galley staff familiar with the location, purpose and
operation of the fixed and portable fire extinguishing systems provided in the galley,
were the systems in good working order and available for immediate use, and were
galley ranges, exhaust vents, filter cowls free of grease or combustible material?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Galley Rating, Internal Accommodation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1433 Unified interpretations of SOLAS Regulation II-2/10.6.4 and CHAPTER 9 of the FSS CODE.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the fire protection measures provided in the galley are properly maintained and crewmembers
can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Inspect the vessel’s galley and verify that:
o Galley ranges were free of fat or other flammable material.
o Grease traps had been recently cleaned.
o Filter cowls of galley vents were free of accumulated fat or oil.
o Fire dampers were properly marked and free to operate.
o Fan stop activation points in, or near, the galley were clearly marked.
o The deep fat fryer fixed fire extinguishing systems fitted had been serviced in accordance with the
maintenance plan.
o The deep fat fryer fixed fire extinguishing nozzles were free of grease build up and were fitted with
their protective blow out caps if required by system design.
o Portable extinguishers and fire blankets were properly stowed and free from obstructions.
o Fire doors and serving hatch shutters were free to close automatically, if so designed, otherwise
were closed except for when in use.
o There was no evidence that deep fat frying was taking place in open pans or fryers not fitted with a
fixed fire extinguishing system.
o Fire detectors were not inhibited or disabled.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out contained in the
maintenance plan.
• Interview a member of the galley staff to verify their familiarity with the purpose and operation of one of the
following:
o The fixed fire extinguishing system,
o The portable fire extinguishing appliances, or,
o The ventilation system stopping and isolation process.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the galley fire extinguishing systems.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no instructions posted in the galley describing the use of the fixed fire extinguishing systems
provided.
• The interviewed galley staff were not familiar with the purpose and operation of the fixed or portable fire
extinguishing or fire protection systems in the galley.
• Oily or fatty deposits were found on galley ranges, in grease traps, within flue pipes, around fire
extinguishing nozzles, around fire detector heads and in the filter cowls of galley vents.
• There was evidence that deep fat frying had been taking place using open pans or a fixed deep fat fryer with
no fixed fire extinguishing system.
• Automatic self-closing fire doors or serving hatch shutters were found to be held back or restricted from
closing fully.
• Manual self-closing fire doors were found held back.
• Portable fire extinguishing devices were found to be obstructed or missing from their designated stowage.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include the fire extinguishing systems for the galley or all the required inspections, tests and
maintenance.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances available.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the fire-extinguishing systems indicated that actions recorded in the plan had not in fact taken
place.
• A fixed fire extinguishing system provided in the galley was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
