## Question 5.2.1

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the starting procedure for the
emergency fire pump, and were records available to demonstrate that the emergency fire
pump and its location had been maintained and tested in accordance with company
procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Steering Gear, Aft Mooring Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: FSS Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation and testing of the emergency
fire pump.
• Review the ship-specific starting instructions posted adjacent to the emergency fire pump.
• Where the emergency fire pump location is accessed through the machinery space verify that:
o The airlock doors between the machinery space and the space containing the emergency fire pump
were closed with no indication that the doors had been held in the open position.
o The second means of access from the deck was not locked or secured to prevent access from the
outside.
• Verify that the inlet and outlet valves to the emergency fire pump were clearly marked and open.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Provided it is safe to do so, witness the starting of the emergency fire pump and verify that the pump
reaches and maintains the required pressure while discharging through the anchor washes or other outlet.
• Where the emergency fire pump was driven by a diesel engine:
o Sight the level in the emergency fire pump fuel tank.
o Where the vessel was operating in sub-zero temperatures verify that the fuel in the tank was
designed for use in sub-zero temperatures.
o Witness a test of the quick closing valve for the emergency fire pump engine where permitted.
• If necessary, review maintenance records to verify that testing of the emergency fire pump and quick closing
valve had taken place in accordance with the maintenance plan.
• Where it was not possible to start the emergency fire pump, interview an officer or rating to verify their
familiarity with the manual starting of the emergency fire pump and its diesel engine.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation and testing of the emergency fire pump.
• The ship-specific procedure for starting the emergency fire pump.
• Onboard records for the testing of the emergency fire pump and, where driven by a diesel engine, the
engine and the fuel quick closing valve.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for starting and testing the emergency fire pump.
• Where the access to the emergency fire pump space was through the machinery space:
o One or both air-lock doors were either open or there was evidence that they had been held open.
o The second access door was locked or secured to prevent access to the space from the outer
decks in the event of a fire in the machinery space.
• There were no ship-specific starting instructions posted adjacent to the emergency fire pump.
• The emergency fire pump sea suction or discharge valves were closed when the pump was designed for
remote operation.
• Where fitted, the remote hand pump for operating the emergency fire pump sea suction valve was
inoperative.
• The posted starting instructions were unclear or inadequate.
• Officers and/or ratings were not familiar with the ship-specific starting instructions for the emergency fire
pump.
• The emergency fire pump diesel engine would not start within three attempts by either the primary or manual
means.
• The emergency fire pump would not gain suction or generate the required pressure and/or flow without
manual intervention beyond that described in the starting instructions.
• The emergency fire pump or, where fitted, its diesel engine was defective in any respect.
• There were significant water leaks from the emergency fire pump or its pipework.
• Engineer officers were not familiar with the operating and testing procedures for the emergency fire pump,
its engine or the fuel quick closing valve.
• There was not enough fuel in the tank to run for 3 hours or the required level had not been established.
• There was not enough fuel available both in the tank and outside the space to run the emergency fire pump
at full load for at least 18 hours (3 + 15 h)
• The vessel was or had been trading in sub-zero temperatures but the fuel in the tank was not designed for
use in sub-zero temperatures.
• The fuel quick closing valve, where required to be fitted, was not located outside the space or did not
operate correctly.
• Records of maintenance and/or testing were not available or incomplete.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
