## Question 5.2.16

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.16

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and crew familiar with the location, purpose, testing and
operation of the vessel’s fire doors?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Deck Officer, Interview - Engine Rating, Engine Room, Forecastle, Internal Accommodation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Inspect a sample of fire doors throughout the accommodation, machinery and storage spaces and verify
that:
o They were free of obstructions.
o No non-approved hold-open methods such as tiebacks, hooks, wedges or other arrangements
were used to hold the door open where it was required to be self-closing.
o Self-closing arrangements closed and latched the door without the need for human intervention.
o The door and frame were free of corrosion or wastage.
o There were no inappropriate cable penetrations through the door, its frame or surrounding
bulkheads.
o There were no inappropriate alterations or modifications.
o There were no gaps between the fire door and frame.
o There was no damage to the lock mechanism, strike plate or hinges preventing the door closing
properly.
o There was no damage to the door packing or frame.
o There were no punctures in the outer skin of the door.
• Where a fire door had apparently been replaced verify that the replacement door was of at least the same
fire rating as shown on the fire control plan.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out in the maintenance plan.
• If necessary, review the Fire Control Plan to verify the required specification of a fire door.
• Interview one officer and one rating to verify their familiarity with the location, purpose and operation of the
vessel’s fire doors.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on fire doors.
• The Fire Control Plan.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which defined the frequency of inspections, tests and maintenance for
fire doors.
• The Master, officers or ratings were not familiar with the location, purpose and operation of the vessel’s fire
doors.
• A replacement fire door did not meet the minimum fire rating as indicated on the Fire Control Plan.
• Fire door self-closing devices did not operate properly.
• Fire doors and/or their frames, where appropriate, were:
o Obstructed.
o Held back by non-approved methods such as tiebacks, hooks, wedges or other such
arrangements.
o Corroded or wasted.
o Subject to inappropriate cable penetrations.
o Subject to inappropriate alterations or modifications.
o Subject to gaps between fire door and frame.
o Subject to damage to the lock mechanism, strike plate or hinges preventing the door closing
properly.
o Subject to damage to the door packing or frame.
o Subject to puncture damage to the outer skin on one or both sides of the door.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include fire doors or all the required inspections, tests and maintenance.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances available.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and firefighting systems and appliances.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the vessel’s fire doors indicated that actions recorded in the plan had not in fact taken place.
• One or more fire door was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
5.3. Portable fire fighting appliances
