## Question 5.2.9

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.9

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the water-spray system for cooling, fire prevention and crew protection on deck, and was
the equipment in good working order, regularly inspected, tested and maintained?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Inspect the space(s) containing the remote controls for the water-spray system for cooling, fire prevention
and crew protection on deck.
• Review the operating instructions for the system posted in the space(s) and verify that the system valves
and controls are properly marked and set.
• Review inspection and servicing data available in the space(s).
• Inspect the system piping, particularly on the underside, for external indications of corrosion and for
patching.
• Examine a random sample of nozzles for evidence of clogging by debris.
• Request an accompanying crew member to randomly check the isolating valves and stop valves to verify
they are operating freely.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out contained in the
maintenance plan.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose and operation of the water
spray system with reference to:
o Starting the pumps.
o The purpose and location of the isolating valves and stop valves.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The purpose and location of the drain point for the deck piping.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the water-spray system for cooling, fire
prevention and crew protection on deck.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the location, purpose and operation of the vessel’s water-
spray system for cooling, fire prevention and crew protection on deck.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• The operating instructions for the water-spray system were not posted at the control station.
• Access to the system controls was obstructed.
• The system valves and controls were not properly marked or set.
• Stop valves or isolating valves did not operate freely.
• The stop valves or isolating valves were not clearly marked.
• There was evidence of clogged nozzles.
• There was hard rust, deterioration or temporary repairs to the system pipework.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances available.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include the vessel’s water-spray system for cooling, fire prevention and crew protection on deck or, all
the required inspections, tests and maintenance.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the water-spray system for cooling, fire prevention and crew protection on deck indicated that
actions recorded in the maintenance plan had not in fact taken place.
• There was no evidence that orifice plates or piping end caps had been removed and pipework flushed
through to clear debris or scale from the system.
• The water-spray system for cooling, fire prevention and crew protection on deck was defective in any
respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
