## Question 5.2.5

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the vessel’s machinery space fixed high-expansion foam fire extinguishing system, and
was the equipment in good working order, available for immediate use, and with
operating instructions clearly displayed at the control stations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Engine Control Room, Emergency Headquarters.
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: FSS Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1312 Revised guidelines for the performance and testing criteria
and survey of foam concentrates for fixed fire-extinguishing systems.

---

### **Objective**


---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Inspect the space(s) containing the machinery space fixed high-expansion foam fire extinguishing system
foam concentrate tanks(s), pump(s) and the system controls and verify that:
o The system operating instructions, in the working language of the ship, were posted near the
control station.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The system valves were clearly identified, and the system instructions indicated their required
status in the standby and operational conditions.
o A copy of the foam concentrate annual test certificate indicated that it was fit for continued use.
o Where the system also protected a cargo pump room, the foam contained in the tank was certified
as compatible with the cargo being carried.
o The foam tank was filled to the required level
• Review inspection and servicing data available in the space.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out contained in the
maintenance plan, including:
o The annual foam concentrate test results.
o The five-yearly test of foam proportioners or other foam mixing devices.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose and operation of the fixed high-
expansion foam fire extinguishing system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the machinery space fixed high-expansion
foam fire extinguishing system, including:
o The annual foam concentrate test results.
o The five-yearly test of foam proportioners or other foam mixing devices.
• The system manual showing the quantity of foam concentrate required to be in the storage tank to meet the
system design criteria.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The machinery space fixed high-expansion foam fire extinguishing system release procedure, operating
instructions and warning notices, in the working language of the ship, were not posted at the release station.
• The valves and/or system controls were not clearly identified to their purpose and required status during
system operation.
• The foam concentrate test had not been carried out within the required time frame.
• The foam concentrate test certificate indicated that the foam was not fit for continued use.
• Where the system also provided protection for a cargo pump room, the foam concentrate was incompatible
with the cargo being carried and no alternative arrangement, to the satisfaction of the Flag Administration,
had been provided.
• The foam proportioners or other foam mixing devices had not been tested as required during five yearly
servicing.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and firefighting systems and
appliances available.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include the vessel’s machinery space fixed high-expansion foam fire extinguishing system or all the
required inspections, tests and maintenance.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose and operation of the vessel’s machinery space
fixed high-expansion foam fire extinguishing system.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• Inspection of the vessel’s machinery space fixed high-expansion foam fire extinguishing system indicated
that actions recorded in the maintenance plan had not in fact taken place.
• The machinery space fixed high-expansion foam fire extinguishing system was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
