## Question 5.2.10

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.10

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the fixed fire extinguishing system installed within enclosed spaces containing cargo
handling equipment, and was the equipment in good working order and available for
immediate use, with the release procedure and operating instructions displayed at the
control stations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Compressor Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IGC Code
IMO: FSS Code
IMO MSC.1/Circ.1318 Guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fixed carbon dioxide fire-extinguishing
systems.
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance
of the fixed fire extinguishing system installed within enclosed spaces containing cargo handling equipment.
• Review the bottle space safe entry instructions.
• Inspect the space(s) containing the machinery space fixed firefighting system bottles.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Inspect the control station(s) for releasing the machinery space fixed firefighting system and review the
operating instructions.
• Review the inspection and servicing data available in the space.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out recorded in the
maintenance plan.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose and operation of the system
and the maintenance plan.
Note. On CO2 systems there are ‘pins’ in the activation assembly, and traditionally, these pins had to be removed for
the system to be ready for immediate use. On some modern systems, these ‘pins’ have to be left ‘in’ for the system to
be ready for immediate use. When inspecting CO2 systems, the inspector should determine from the accompanying
officer whether the pins should be ‘in’ or ‘out’ for the system to be ready for immediate use. If in any doubt reference
should be made to the manufacturer’s operating instructions.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance of the fixed fire extinguishing
system installed within enclosed spaces containing cargo handling equipment.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance of the fixed fire extinguishing system installed within
enclosed spaces containing cargo handling equipment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance of the fixed fire
extinguishing system installed within enclosed spaces containing cargo handling equipment that included:
o A description of the fixed fire extinguishing system, its components, and its functions.
o Instructions for the operation of the fixed fire extinguishing system.
o A maintenance plan.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances available.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include the vessel’s fixed fire extinguishing system installed within enclosed spaces containing cargo
handling equipment or all the required inspections, tests and maintenance.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the vessel’s fixed fire extinguishing system installed within enclosed spaces containing cargo
handling equipment indicated that actions recorded in the maintenance plan had not taken place.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose and operation of the vessel’s fixed fire
extinguishing system installed within enclosed spaces containing cargo handling equipment.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the safety precautions for entering the bottle space.
• There were no safety procedures for entering the bottle space posted at each entrance door.
• The entrances to the space containing cargo handling equipment e.g., compressor room or motor room
were not marked with a notice indicating the space was protected by a fixed fire extinguishing system.
• The bottle space or release cabinet doors were locked but there were no keys provided.
• The fixed fire extinguishing system release procedure, operating instructions and warning notices were not
posted at the release station.
• The fixed fire extinguishing system installed within enclosed spaces containing cargo handling equipment
was not ready for immediate use for any reason, such as, branch pipes blanked, nozzles or control levers
inhibited, etc.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The fixed fire extinguishing system installed within enclosed spaces containing cargo handling equipment
was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
