## Question 5.2.7

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.7

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the vessel’s fire pumps, fire main, fire main isolating valves and fire hydrants, and was
the system and its components in good working order and available for immediate use?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Engine Room, Exterior Decks, Emergency Headquarters.
Publications
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Provided it is safe to do so, witness the remote starting of a fire pump from the bridge or fire control station
and verify that the pump reaches and maintains the required pressure while discharging through the anchor
washes or other outlet.
• Inspect the deck fire main, particularly on the underside, for external indications of corrosion and for
patching or accelerated wear caused by rope abrasion.
• Inspect the fire pumps and verify that the suction and delivery valves were open.
• Inspect the fire main in the machinery space for external indications of corrosion and for patching.
• Request an accompanying crew member to randomly check the fire hydrants and fire main isolating valves
to ensure they operate freely.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the fire main system with reference to:
o Starting the fire pumps.
o The purpose and location of the fire main isolating valves.
o The purpose and location of the drain point for the deck fire main.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out contained in the
maintenance plan.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the fire mains, fire pumps, isolating valves
and hydrants.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The fire pumps could not be started remotely from the navigating bridge or fire control station.
• There was no means to verify the delivery pressure on the fire main either on the navigating bridge or at the
fire control station.
• Fire hydrant valves or fire main isolating valves did not operate freely.
• Fire main isolation valves were found to be closed.
• There was hard rust, deterioration or temporary repairs to the fire main pipework.
• The fire pump suction or delivery valves were found to be closed
• The fire hydrant or fire main isolating valves were not clearly marked.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with:
o Starting the fire pumps.
o The purpose and location of the isolating valves.
o The purpose and location of the drain point for the deck fire main.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and firefighting systems and appliances did
not include the fire mains, fire pumps, fire main isolating valves and fire hydrants and all the required
inspections, tests and maintenance.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and firefighting systems and
appliances available.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and firefighting systems and appliances.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the fire mains, fire pumps, fire main isolating valves and fire hydrants indicated that actions
recorded in the maintenance plan had not in fact taken place.
• The fire mains, fire pumps, fire main isolating valves or fire hydrants were defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
