## Question 5.2.4

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the vessel’s fixed carbon dioxide fire extinguishing system, and was the equipment in
good working order and available for immediate use, with the release procedure and
operating instructions displayed at the control stations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Aft Mooring Deck, Emergency Headquarters.
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: FSS Code
IMO MSC.1/Circ.1318 Guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fixed carbon dioxide fire-extinguishing
systems.
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the CO2 space safe entry instructions.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Inspect the space(s) containing the machinery space fixed firefighting system carbon dioxide bottles.
• Inspect the control station(s) for releasing the machinery space carbon dioxide fixed firefighting system and
review the operating instructions.
• Review the inspection and servicing data available in the space.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out contained in the
maintenance plan.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose and operation of the system.
Note. On CO2 systems there are ‘pins’ in the activation assembly, and traditionally, these pins had to be removed for
the system to be ready for immediate use. On some modern systems, these ‘pins’ have to be left ‘in’ for the system to
be ready for immediate use. When inspecting the CO2 systems, the inspector should determine from the
accompanying officer whether the pins should be ‘in’ or ‘out’ for the system to be ready for immediate use. If in any
doubt reference should be made to the manufacturer's operating instructions.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance for the machinery space fixed carbon dioxide firefighting
system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no safety procedures for entering the CO2 space posted at each entrance door.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the safety precautions for entering the CO2 space.
• The CO2 space or release cabinets were locked but there were no keys provided.
• The machinery space carbon dioxide fire extinguishing system release procedure, operating instructions and
warning notices were not posted at the release station.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances available.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include the vessel’s fixed carbon dioxide fire extinguishing system or all the required inspections, tests
and maintenance.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose and operation of the vessel’s fixed carbon
dioxide fire extinguishing system.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• Inspection of the vessel’s fixed carbon dioxide fire extinguishing system indicated that actions recorded in
the maintenance plan had not taken place.
• The machinery space carbon dioxide fixed fire extinguishing system was defective in any respect.
• The machinery space carbon dioxide fixed fire extinguishing system was not ready for immediate use for
any reason, such as, branch pipes blanked, nozzles or control levers inhibited, etc.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
