## Question 5.2.11

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.11

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the vessel’s fixed dry chemical powder fire extinguishing system, and was the equipment
in good working order and readily available for immediate use, with operating
instructions clearly displayed at the control stations.

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck, Cargo Manifold
Publications
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1315 Guidelines for the approval of fixed dry chemical powder fire-extinguishing systems for the
protection of ships carrying liquefied gases in bulk.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Inspect the components and operational controls of the cargo area fixed dry chemical powder fire-
extinguishing system.
• Review the operation instructions for the system posted near the operational controls and verify that the
system valves and controls were correctly marked.
• Review the inspection and servicing data available at the control stations.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out contained within the
maintenance plan, including:
o The annual agitation of the dry powder by nitrogen.
o The two-yearly testing of a sample of dry chemical powder for moisture content.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose and operation of the cargo area
fixed dry chemical powder extinguishing system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the cargo area fixed dry chemical powder
extinguishing system including:
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The annual agitation of the dry powder by nitrogen.
o The two-yearly testing of a sample of dry chemical powder for moisture content.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The cargo area fixed dry chemical powder extinguishing system operating instructions were not posted at
each operating station in the working language of the ship.
• The system controls and valves were not clearly marked in accordance with the operating instructions.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances available.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include the vessel’s fixed dry chemical powder fire-extinguishing system or all the required inspections,
tests and maintenance.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose and operation of the vessel’s fixed dry chemical
powder fire-extinguishing system.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• Inspection of the vessel’s fixed dry chemical powder fire-extinguishing system indicated that actions
recorded in the plan had not in fact taken place.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete, including:
o The annual agitation of the dry powder by nitrogen.
o The two-yearly testing of a sample of dry chemical powder for moisture content.
• The fixed dry chemical powder fire-extinguishing system was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
