## Question 5.2.3

**Paragraph Number:**
5.2.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the vessel’s fixed fire detection and fire alarm system, and was the equipment in good
working order, regularly inspected, tested and maintained?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Electrician / ETO, Bridge, Engine Control Room, Emergency Headquarters.
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: FSS Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
IMO: IGF Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which defined the operation, testing and
maintenance requirements for the fixed fire detection and fire alarm system.
• Inspect the central control station for the fixed fire detection and fire alarm system and verify that:
o The system was fully operational.
o The system was not indicating any faults.
o Where the spaces containing the fire alarm main or repeater control panels were not continuously
manned there was no delay in sounding a fire alarm.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Clear information was displayed on or adjacent to each indicating unit about the spaces covered
and the location of the sections.
o All zones and detectors were active unless a documented work process was taking place which
required the temporary isolation of a zone or sensor.
• Review inspection and testing data available at the central control station and verify that:
o Detector testing had been completed at the defined frequency.
o Fire safety system tests had been completed at the required frequency.
o The emergency power supply had been verified as functional.
• Verify that the correct testing devices were available to test the types of fire detectors provided onboard.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests, calibration and maintenance carried out contained
within the maintenance plan.
• Where the fire detection and alarm system was noted to be defective, verify that the machinery space had
not been operated in the unattended status since the system had been reported as defective.
• Interview the responsible officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The purpose, operation and testing of the fixed fire detection and fire alarm system.
o Any delay in sounding the fire alarm programmed into the alarm system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which defined the requirements for operating and testing the fixed fire detection
and fire alarm system
• The manufacturer’s instruction manual for the fixed fire detection and fire alarm system.
• The inspection, calibration and maintenance records for the fixed fire detection and fire alarm system.
• The Engine Room Logbook.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which defined the operation and maintenance of the fixed fire detection
and fire alarm system
• The Master or officers were not familiar with the location, purpose and operation of the vessel’s fixed fire
detection and fire alarm system
• The responsible officer was not familiar with the maintenance and testing of the fixed fire detection and fire
alarm system.
• The vessel was not provided with the fire detector testing equipment appropriate to each type of fire/smoke
detector in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
• Information was not displayed on or adjacent to each indicating unit about the spaces covered and the
location of the sections.
• Where the fire alarm main or repeater control panels were in a space that was not continuously manned
there was a delay between a fire being detected and the fire alarms sounding.
• The fixed fire detection and fire alarm system was indicating a fault.
• The fixed fire detection and fire alarm system was not operational.
• One or more individual fire detector sensor was covered or disabled in any manner.
• The machinery space had been operated in the unattended status whilst a zone was isolated, or the fire
detector and alarm system was defective.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and firefighting systems and appliances did
not include the fixed fire detection and fire alarm system or all the required inspections, tests and
maintenance.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and firefighting systems and
appliances available.
• The responsible officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and
firefighting systems and appliances.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• Suitable instructions or component spares for testing and maintenance were not available
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Inspection of the vessel’s fixed fire detection and fire alarm system indicated that actions recorded in the
plan had not in fact taken place.
• The vessel’s fixed fire detection and fire alarm system was defective in any way.
• Where there was evidence that fire rounds had been carried out during the hours of darkness by the
designated bridge lookout, address this issue under question 4.3.1.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
