## Question 5.3.1

**Paragraph Number:**
5.3.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the location and use of the
vessel’s firefighter’s outfits including the self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA), and
was the equipment maintained in good condition and ready for immediate use in
accordance with company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Steering Gear, Forecastle, Emergency Headquarters.
Publications
UK MCA: MSIS 12 Fire protection arrangements. For the guidance of surveyors in surveying fire protection
arrangements to ensure compliance with requirements covering merchant ships.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
IMO: FSS Code
IACS: UI SC275 Rev. 1 2016 Suitable number of spare air cylinders to be provided in connection with drills.
IACS: UI SC291 Safe Type requirements for two-was portable radiotelephone apparatus for fire-fighter’s
communications (SOLAS Regulation II-2/10.10.4)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire or enclosed space rescue situation in
accordance with the shipboard emergency plans.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Check the firefighter’s outfit storage areas and verify that the firefighter’s outfit(s) were prepared for
immediate use.
• Check the inventory and condition of a selected firefighter’s outfit.
• Check the associated SCBA and verify that:
o It had been serviced and inspected in accordance with the maintenance plan.
o The bottle was fully charged.
o The correct number of fully charged spare bottles were available.
o The harness and facemasks had been extended for ease of donning.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the use and maintenance of the SCBA and
compressor with reference to:
o Full cylinder endurance.
o Correct cylinder filling pressure.
o Cylinder changing and recharging.
o Hygiene requirements.
• If the vessel was provided with a breathing air compressor verify that:
o A usage log was being maintained.
o It had been serviced and inspected in accordance with the maintenance plan.
o A process was in place to test the air quality at a defined interval.
o Where bottles of different pressures were to be filled, detailed instructions for preventing of
overfilling of bottles were available and understood.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out contained in the
maintenance plan.
• Request that an officer or rating demonstrates:
o The donning of the SCBA.
o The test for equipment air leaks.
o The testing of the mask seal with the face.
o The testing of the low air alarm.
Note: This question is not focused on the additional SCBAs required by the IGC and Chemical Codes.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for vessel’s fire protection systems and firefighting systems and appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on:
o The firefighter’s outfits.
o The SCBAs.
o The spare SCBA cylinders.
o The breathing air compressor including air quality checks.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The firefighter’s suits or SCBAs were not stored in the correct location in accordance with the fire plan;
unless they were in position for cargo operations in accordance with company procedures.
• The firefighter’s outfits were incomplete or defective in any respect.
• The SCBAs and firefighter's outfits were not prepared for immediate use with a fully charged bottle and the
required spare bottle(s).
• A SCBA was defective in any respect.
• The electric safety lamps were not explosion proof type 1.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Insufficient intrinsically safe two-way portable radios were available for the number of fire teams indicated on
the muster list.
• Not all SCBA cylinders were fully interchangeable.
• The SCBAs or the spare bottles had not been serviced or pressure tested in accordance with the
maintenance plan.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with:
o The firefighter’s outfit or the associated SCBA.
o The process for filling the SCBA bottles with the onboard compressor, where provided.
• An officer or rating was unable to demonstrate the donning of a SCBA and the safety checks required prior
to entering a hazardous environment.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and firefighting systems and appliances did
not include the firefighter’s outfits, SCBA and breathing air compressor or all the required inspections, tests
and maintenance.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and firefighting systems and
appliances available.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and firefighting systems and appliances.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the firefighter’s outfits, SCBA or breathing air compressor indicated that actions recorded in the
plan had not in fact taken place.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
