## Question 5.3.4

**Paragraph Number:**
5.3.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the location and purpose of the
Emergency Escape Breathing Devices (EEBDs) carried on board, and were these devices
in good order, suitably located and ready for immediate use?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Pumproom, Internal Accommodation, Interview - Rating
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
IMO MSC/Circ.849 Guidelines for the performance
location
use and care of emergency escape breathing devices (EEBDs)
MSC/Circ.1081 Unified interpretations of SOLAS regulations II-2/13.3.4 and II-2/13.4.3

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that Emergency Escape Breathing Devices (EEBDs) are readily available to personnel in the event
of a fire or any other emergency on the vessel.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the use and maintenance of EEBDs
• Sight, and where necessary review, the inspection and maintenance records for the EEBDs in the on-board
maintenance plan.
• Inspect sample EEBDs in the machinery spaces, the pumproom and the accommodation spaces.
• Interview two ratings to verify their familiarity with the location and purpose of the EEBDs.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for the use and maintenance of EEBDs
• The inspection and maintenance records for the EEBDs contained within the onboard maintenance plan.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the use and maintenance of EEBDs.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the location, inspection and maintenance of the EEBDs.
• The EEBDs were not positioned in accordance with the fire control plan.
• There were fewer spare EEBDs onboard than indicated on the fire control plan.
• An inspected EEBD was found defective in any respect, including:
o The cylinder pressure was outside the normal range.
o The unit was passed its expiry date.
o The donning instructions could not be read.
o The unit was not marked with its maintenance requirements, manufacturer's trademark and serial
number, shelf life (expiry date) with accompanying manufacture date and name of approving
authority.
• EEBD(s) used for training were not clearly marked.
• EEBD(s) had not been inspected and maintained according to the company procedures and manufacturer’s
instructions.
• Rechargeable EEBD cylinders had not been hydrostatically tested at the required interval.
• An interviewed rating was unfamiliar with the location and purpose of the EEBDs.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
