## Question 5.3.2

**Paragraph Number:**
5.3.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and crew familiar with the location, purpose and
operation of the vessel’s fire hoses, nozzles and international shore connection, and was
the equipment in good working order and available for immediate use?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Anywhere, Interview - Rating
Publications
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: FSS Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
IACS: UI SC98 Fire hose nozzles of a plastic type material (Reg. II-2/10.2.3.3)
IACS: UI SC146 Fire hose couplings and nozzles (Reg. II-2/10.2.3)
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Inspect a random sample of the vessel’s fire hoses and nozzles from the accommodation, machinery spaces
and main deck areas and verify that the washers, connecting spanners, connecting mechanisms and nozzle
jet/spray controls were present and/or fully functional.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Inspect a random sample of fire hydrants and verify that washers and connection mechanisms were present
and functioning.
• Inspect the international shore connection(s) and verify the required nuts, bolts and gasket were available
and, in addition, two correctly sized spanners.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out contained in the
maintenance plan.
• If necessary, review the fire control plan to verify the required location of fire hoses and nozzles.
• Interview a deck or engine rating to verify their familiarity with the purpose and operation of the fire hoses,
nozzles and international shore connections.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the fire hoses, nozzles and international
shore connections.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• Fire hoses, nozzles or international shore connections were missing from the locations shown on the fire
control plan unless laid out for cargo or bunker operations.
• Fire hoses, nozzles or international shore connections were not ready for immediate use.
• Fire hoses were either less than 10m in length or longer than the maximum permitted for their location.
• The required gaskets, nuts, washers or recommended spanners were missing from the international shore
connection(s) storage location.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose and operation of the fire hoses, nozzles and
international shore connections.
• An interviewed rating was not familiar with the purpose and operation of the fire hoses, nozzles and
international shore connections.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include the fire hoses, nozzles and international shore connections or all the required inspections, tests
and maintenance.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances available.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the fire hoses, nozzles and international shore connections indicated that actions recorded in
the plan had not in fact taken place.
• An inspected fire hose, nozzle or international shore connections was found to be defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
