## Question 5.3.3

**Paragraph Number:**
5.3.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the location, purpose and
operation of the vessel’s portable fire extinguishers, and were the extinguishers in good
order and readily available for immediate use with operating instructions clearly marked?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Engine Control Room, Anywhere
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: Resolution A.951(23) Improved Guidelines for Marine Portable fire extinguishers.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1275 Unified interpretation of SOLAS chapter II-2 on the number and arrangement of portable fire
extinguishers on board ships. Rev.1

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Inspect a representative sample of each type of portable extinguisher found onboard and verify that each fire
extinguisher was:
o Marked with the information required under A.951(23) 8.1.
o Marked with the date of the last annual service.
o Marked with the date of the last check by vessel staff.
o In the correct position as indicated by the fire control plan.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out in the maintenance plan.
• Review the inventory of spare extinguishers and spare charges and verify that there are sufficient on board
for the number and type of portable fire extinguishers required to be carried.
• Interview one officer or rating to verify their familiarity with the purpose and operation of a selected portable
fire extinguisher.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The Fire Control Plan.
• The maintenance plan for fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on portable fire extinguishers required by the
maintenance plan.
• Inventory of spare fire extinguisher charges and/or spare fire extinguishers.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• Fire extinguisher(s) were missing or not located as shown in the Fire Control Plan.
• The fire control plan did not comply with MSC.1/Circ.1275 with regards to the distribution of fire
extinguishers. (for ships constructed before 1 January 2009 make a comment only in the Hardware
response tool)
• Fire extinguisher(s) were not fully charged.
• Fire extinguisher(s) were not readily available for immediate use.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Fire extinguisher(s) were not clearly marked with the information required by A.951(23) 8.1.
• Fire Extinguisher(s) were not marked with the date of onboard inspection or annual survey.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the inspection and maintenance plan for portable fire
extinguishers.
• In service fire extinguishers(s) were found to be defective in any respect.
• Fire extinguishers were not included in the maintenance plan for fire protection systems and fire-fighting
systems and appliances.
• Inspection records for inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on fire extinguishers were incomplete.
• Inspection of an extinguisher indicated that actions recorded in the maintenance plan had not in fact taken
place.
• There were insufficient spare charges or extra extinguishers.
• An interviewed officer or rating was unfamiliar with the use and/or operation of a portable fire extinguisher.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
