## Question 5.3.5

**Paragraph Number:**
5.3.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and engine ratings familiar with the purpose and
operation of the vessel’s wheeled (mobile) fire extinguishers, and was the equipment in
good order and available for immediate use with operating instructions clearly marked?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Interview - Engine Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Inspect the wheeled fire extinguishers in the machinery spaces and verify each extinguisher was:
o Marked with the required information.
o Marked with the date of the last annual service.
o Marked with the date of the last check by vessel staff.
o In the correct position as indicated by the fire control plan.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out in the maintenance plan.
• Review the inventory of spare charges and verify that there were sufficient on board for the wheeled fire
extinguishers.
• Interview one engineer officer or rating to verify their familiarity with the purpose and operation of the
wheeled fire extinguishers.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The fire control plan
• The maintenance plan for fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on wheeled fire extinguishers required by the
maintenance plan.
• Inventory of spare charges.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• A wheeled fire extinguisher(s) was not:
o Fully charged.
o Readily available for immediate use.
o Marked with the required information.
o Marked with the date of onboard inspections or servicing.
o Included in the maintenance plan for fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances.
• A wheeled fire extinguisher(s) was:
o Missing or not located as shown in the fire control plan.
o Defective in any respect.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the inspection and maintenance plan for wheeled fire
extinguishers.
• Inspection records for inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on wheeled fire extinguishers were
incomplete.
• Inspection of a wheeled fire extinguisher indicated that actions recorded in the maintenance plan had not in
fact taken place.
• There were insufficient spare charges.
• An interviewed engineer officer or rating was unfamiliar with the use and/or operation of a wheeled fire
extinguisher.
Where the vessel is not equipped with wheeled (mobile) fire extinguishers, select “Not Answerable” in each of the
response tools then select "Not Applicable - as instructed by question guidance".
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
5.4. Life saving appliances
