## Question 5.4.5

**Paragraph Number:**
5.4.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the operation of the liferafts, hydrostatic
releases and liferaft launching appliances, where provided, and were they in good order
with records available to demonstrate that they had been serviced, inspected and tested
as required?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Forecastle, Lifeboat deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: LSA Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1490/Rev 1. Revised Unified Interpretation of SOLAS Regulation III/31.1.4 (MSC.1/Circ.1490)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that liferafts, hydrostatic releases and, liferaft launching appliances, where fitted, will function
correctly in an emergency.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure to ensure that liferafts, and launching
appliances if fitted, were periodically inspected and tested and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• Review the records of periodic servicing by an authorised service station for the liferafts, hydrostatic
releases and, launching appliances, where provided.
• Where necessary review the records of onboard inspections of the liferafts, hydrostatic releases and,
launching appliances, where provided.
• Inspect the liferafts, hydrostatic releases and, liferaft launching appliances, where provided, and verify that
they were stowed and ready for immediate release in accordance with the applicable regulations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the operation, inspection and testing of the
liferafts, hydrostatic releases and, liferaft launching appliances, where fitted.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure to ensure liferafts, and launching appliances if fitted, were periodically inspected
and tested and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• The Bridge Log Book.
• Records of periodic servicing, inspection and tests of the liferafts, hydrostatic releases and, launching
appliances, where provided.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the operation of the liferafts, hydrostatic releases and, liferaft
launching appliances, where provided.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the required servicing, inspection and testing of the liferafts,
hydrostatic releases and, liferaft launching appliances, where provided.
• There was insufficient liferaft capacity for the number of people on board.
• A liferaft was not in a state of continuous readiness in any respect except where the liferafts had been
removed for shore servicing after arrival in port and would be replaced before departure.
• A liferaft, other than a remotely located survival craft, was not capable of floating free from the ship.
• Liferafts were not stowed so as to allow manual release of one raft or container at a time.
• A liferaft painter was not permanently attached to the ship.
• The rigging of a hydrostatic release unit was not in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
• A non-disposable hydrostatic release unit was not marked, or had not been serviced, as required.
• A disposable hydrostatic release unit was not marked with, or was past, its expiry date.
• A liferaft was not marked, or had not been serviced, as required.
• A liferaft embarkation ladder was not provided as required or was in poor condition.
• A liferaft launching appliance, where provided, was defective in any respect.
• A remotely stowed liferaft was not provided with illumination or, an embarkation ladder or other means of
embarkation.
• Where a remotely stowed liferaft was provided with self-contained battery lamps as the required means of
illumination, there was no evidence that recent tests had confirmed that the lamp would provide three hours
of undiminished performance.
• There were no handholds to ensure a safe passage from the deck to the head of an embarkation ladder and
vice versa.
• Servicing of liferafts, hydrostatic releases and liferaft launching appliances, where fitted, by an authorised
service station had not been completed at the required interval.
• Records of weekly and monthly inspections of liferafts, hydrostatic releases and, liferaft launching
appliances, where provided, were incomplete.
Where the liferafts fitted had an extended service interval due to provision of a service kit for use on board, enter a
comment in the Hardware response tool and provide details of:
• The extended service interval.
• Who was trained to conduct the onboard servicing using the kit provided.
• The evidence that the extended service interval was accepted by the Flag Administration.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
