## Question 5.4.2

**Paragraph Number:**
5.4.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the operation of the free-fall lifeboat, its
release systems and its launching appliance, and was the equipment in satisfactory
condition with records available to demonstrate that it had been inspected and tested in
accordance with company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Lifeboat deck
Publications
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF: Survival Craft – A Seafarer’s Guide
IMO: LSA Code
IMO: Resolution MSC.402(96) Requirements for maintenance
thorough examination
operational testing
overhaul and repair of lifeboats and rescue boats
launching appliances and release gear

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the free-fall lifeboat, its release system and launching appliance will be ready for immediate use in
an emergency.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures to ensure the free-fall lifeboat, its release
systems, launching appliance and recovery equipment were periodically inspected and tested and ready for
immediate use in an emergency.
• Review records of periodic inspections and tests of the free-fall lifeboat, its release systems, launching
appliance and recovery equipment.
• Inspect the free-fall lifeboat, its equipment and release systems, considering the regulatory requirements
and with reference to a copy of the vessel's monthly inspection checklist, and verify that the lifeboat, its
equipment and release systems were in good order.
• Inspect the free-fall lifeboat launching and recovery systems and stowage arrangements, considering the
regulatory requirements and with reference to a copy of the vessel's monthly inspection checklist, and verify
that the lifeboat launching, recovery and stowage systems were in good order
• If safe to do so, request that the accompanying officer starts the lifeboat engine and demonstrate the
propeller moving in the ahead and astern direction.
• Select several items from the monthly inspection check list required by SOLAS III/36 and verify that the
accompanying officer was familiar with how the checks or tests were performed.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the operation, inspection and testing of the
free-fall lifeboat, its release system and launching appliance.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure to ensure the free-fall lifeboat, its release system and launching appliance were
periodically inspected and tested and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• A copy of the monthly inspection checklist required by SOLAS III/36.
• The Bridge Log Book.
• Records of thorough examination and operational tests of the free-fall lifeboat, its release systems,
launching appliance and recovery equipment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There was no company procedure to ensure the free-fall lifeboat, its release systems, launching appliance
and recovery equipment were periodically inspected and tested and ready for immediate use in an
emergency.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the operation of the free-fall lifeboat, its release systems,
launching appliance and recovery equipment.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the required inspection and testing of the free-fall lifeboat, its
release systems, launching appliance and recovery equipment.
• Records of weekly and monthly inspections and routine maintenance of the free-fall lifeboat, its release
systems, launching appliance and recovery equipment were incomplete.
• Records of annual and five-yearly thorough examinations and tests of the free-fall lifeboat, its release
systems, launching appliance and recovery equipment were incomplete.
• There were no checklists as required by SOLAS III/36 available for the inspection of the free-fall lifeboat, its
release systems, launching appliance and recovery equipment.
• Records indicated the lifeboat falls had been in service for longer than five years.
• The lifeboat was not marked as required.
• There were no clear operating instructions provided in the lifeboat for the release system.
• The release system was not adequately protected against accidental or premature release.
• The release system was not clearly marked in a colour that contrasted with its surroundings.
• Items of lifeboat equipment were damaged, missing or improperly stowed.
• The locking seat harnesses were not in good order.
• The lifeboat engine would not start.
• There were no water-resistant instructions for starting and operating the engine mounted in a conspicuous
place near the engine starting controls.
• When tested, it could not be demonstrated that the lifeboat gear box and gear box train were engaging
satisfactorily.
• Indicated pressure for the self-contained air-support system, if fitted, was not within the normal range.
• Nozzles for the water spray fire-protection system, if fitted, were clogged by salt and/or scale.
• Recovery limit switches, if fitted, were not operating freely.
• The means provided to secure the lifeboat in the stowed position were in poor condition.
• The free-fall lifeboat was not properly secured in the stowed position.
• Safety/maintenance chains or pins were still place.
• Hydraulic hoses appeared to be in poor condition
• The rollers and/or skid ramp appeared to be in poor condition
• The free-fall lifeboat, its release systems, launching appliance and recovery equipment were not marked
with the required symbols.
• Inspection of the free-fall lifeboat, its release systems, launching appliance and recovery equipment
indicated that actions recorded in the maintenance plan had not in fact taken place.
• The free-fall lifeboat, its release systems, launching appliance and recovery equipment were defective in any
respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
