## Question 5.4.3

**Paragraph Number:**
5.4.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the operation of the dedicated rescue
boat and launching appliance, and were they in good order with records available to
demonstrate that they had been inspected and tested as required?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Lifeboat deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF: Survival Craft – A Seafarer’s Guide
IMO: LSA Code
IMO: Resolution MSC.402(96) Requirements for maintenance
thorough examination
operational testing
overhaul and repair of lifeboats and rescue boats
launching appliances and release gear

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the rescue boat will be ready for immediate use in an emergency.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure to ensure the rescue boat and launching
appliance were periodically inspected and tested and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• Review records of periodic inspections and tests of the rescue boat and launching appliance.
• Inspect the rescue boat and launching appliance.
• If safe to do so, request that the accompanying officer:
o Starts the rescue boat engine and engages the drive.
o Demonstrates that that the launching appliance can be slewed manually and/or by reserve power.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the operation, inspection and testing of the
rescue boat and its launching appliance.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure to ensure the rescue boat and launching appliance were periodically inspected and
tested and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• The Bridge Log Book.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Records of periodic inspections and tests of the rescue boat and launching appliance.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the operation of the rescue boat and launching appliance.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the required inspection and testing of the rescue boat and
launching appliance.
• Records of weekly and monthly inspections and routine maintenance of the rescue boat and launching
appliance were incomplete.
• Records of annual and five-yearly thorough examinations and tests of the rescue boat and launching
appliance were incomplete.
• A full set of maintenance manuals and associated technical documentation for the rescue boat and
launching appliance were not available on board.
• Emergency repairs had been made to an inflatable rescue boat on board and were pending permanent
repair at an approved servicing station.
• The rescue boat was not in a state of continuous readiness, for instance, an inflatable rescue boat was not
fully inflated.
• Items of rescue boat equipment were damaged, missing or improperly stowed.
• The rescue boat engine would not start.
• There were no water-resistant instructions for starting and operating the engine mounted in a conspicuous
place near the engine starting controls.
• When tested, it could not be demonstrated that the gear box and gear box train were engaging satisfactorily.
• Inspection of the rescue boat and launching appliances indicated that actions recorded in the maintenance
plan had not in fact taken place.
• The rescue boat launching device could not be slewed manually or by reserve power in accordance with its
operating instructions.
• The rescue boat or its launching device were defective in any respect.
• There was no checklist available for the inspection of the rescue boat and launching appliance.
• The rescue boat and launching appliance and their locations were not marked with the required symbols.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
