## Question 5.4.8

**Paragraph Number:**
5.4.8

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the lifejackets and personal
flotation devices (PFDs) provided on board, and was the equipment in good condition,
and properly maintained?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Forecastle, Engine Control Room, Interview - Rating, Lifeboat deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers
IMO: LSA Code
IMO: Resolution A 658 (16) Use and fitting of retro-reflective materials on life-saving appliances

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all life-saving appliances are in working order and ready for immediate use.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures to ensure that the lifejackets required by
SOLAS were in good order, readily accessible and their location(s) clearly indicated.
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures providing guidance on the use of “working
lifejackets”, including the servicing of inflatable lifejackets, if carried.
• Inspect the lifejackets at one stowage location.
• Sight the lifejackets at any other location(s).
• Inspect a sample of “working lifejackets”.
• Review the records of monthly inspections of all lifejackets.
• Review the records of annual servicing of inflatable lifejackets, if carried.
• Interview a rating to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the use of “working lifejackets”.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures to ensure that the lifejackets required by SOLAS were in good order, readily
accessible and their location(s) clearly indicated.
• The company procedures providing guidance on the use of “working lifejackets”, including the servicing of
inflatable lifejackets, if carried.
• Records of monthly inspections of all lifejackets.
• Records of annual servicing of inflatable lifejackets, if carried.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures to ensure that the lifejackets required by SOLAS were in good order,
readily accessible and their location(s) clearly indicated.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures to ensure that the lifejackets
required by SOLAS were in good order, readily accessible and their location(s) clearly indicated.
• There was no company procedure providing guidance on the use of “working lifejackets”, including the
servicing of inflatable lifejackets, if carried.
• An interviewed rating was not familiar with the company procedures for the use of “working lifejackets”.
• The lifejackets required by SOLAS, as provided, were not suitable for the type of lifeboat installed.
• The stowage locations of lifejackets were not clearly marked, including the number of lifejackets in that
location, with the recommended symbols.
• Lifejackets of an appropriate number were not provided on the bridge, in the engine room, at the location of
the forward life-raft or any other required remote location.
• Lifejackets were not readily accessible.
• The retro-reflective tape required to be fitted on lifejackets was in poor condition or missing.
• Lifejacket whistles were missing or damaged.
• Lifejacket lights were missing or past their battery expiry date.
• Releasable buoyant lines, if fitted, were missing or defective.
• Means to lift the wearer of the lifejacket, if fitted, were missing or defective.
• Records of monthly inspections carried out were incomplete.
• Records of annual servicing of inflatable lifejackets, if carried, were incomplete.
• Inspection of the lifejackets indicated that recorded inspections and servicing had not taken place.
• One or more lifejacket was defective in any respect.
• “Working lifejackets” were not available for when crew members were carrying out work overside or in an
exposed position where there is a reasonably foreseeable risk of falling or being washed overboard, or
where work is being carried out in or from a ship’s boat.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
