## Question 5.4.4

**Paragraph Number:**
5.4.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and Officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the rocket parachute flares and line throwing appliances and were they in good order,
with records available to demonstrate that had they had been inspected as required?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: LSA Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the rocket parachute flares and line throwing appliances will function correctly in an emergency.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure to ensure that rocket parachute flares and line
throwing appliances were periodically inspected and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• Review records of periodic inspections of the rocket parachute flares and line throwing appliances.
• Inspect the rocket parachute flares and line throwing appliances and their stowage location.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation and inspection of the
rocket parachute flares and line throwing appliances.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure to ensure that rocket parachute flares and line throwing appliances were
periodically inspected and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• Records of periodic inspections of the rocket parachute flares and line throwing appliances.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure to ensure that rocket parachute flares and line throwing appliances were
periodically inspected and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the purpose and operation of the rocket parachute flares and
line throwing appliances.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the required inspection of the rocket parachute flares and line
throwing appliances.
• There were insufficient rocket parachute flares or line throwing appliances on board.
• The stowage location(s) of rocket parachute flares and line throwing appliances were not clearly marked
with the recommended symbols and the number of devices stowed there.
• Rocket parachute flares or line throwing appliances were not stowed on or near the bridge.
• The stowage of rocket parachute flares or line throwing appliances was not water or weatherproof as
required.
• Rocket parachute flares or line throwing appliances were not clearly marked with brief operating instructions.
• Any of the following were past their expiry date:
o Rocket parachute flares.
o Line throwing rockets.
o Rocket lines.
• Rocket parachute flares or line throwing appliances were not ready for immediate use, e.g. rockets and lines
were stowed apart.
• There was no table of lifesaving signals on the bridge.
• Records of periodic inspections of the rocket parachute flares and line throwing appliances were incomplete.
• Any one of the rocket parachute flares or line throwing appliances were defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
