## Question 5.4.6

**Paragraph Number:**
5.4.6

---

### **Question**
Were the lifebuoys, and associated lights, smoke floats and lifelines, in good order,
clearly marked and correctly distributed around the ship?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Main Deck, Mooring Decks, Bridge
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: LSA Code
IMO: Resolution A 658 (16) Use and fitting of retro-reflective materials on life-saving appliances

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all life-saving appliances are in working order and ready for immediate use.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure to ensure that lifebuoys, and associated lights,
smoke floats and lifelines, were in good order, clearly marked and correctly distributed around the ship.
• Inspect a selection of the ship’s lifebuoys, and associated lights, smoke floats and lifelines.
Any matters relating to the lifebuoy and light provided for safe access will be addressed by the appropriate questions
except where the lifebuoy light was found to be unsafe for use in a gas hazardous zone.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure to ensure that lifebuoys, and associated lights, smoke floats and lifelines, were in
good order, clearly marked and correctly distributed around the ship.
• The checklist and log for records of monthly inspections and maintenance of the lifebuoys.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was:
o Less than the required number of lifebuoys.
o An insufficient number of lifebuoys with lights
o A lifebuoy fitted with both light and lifeline.
o No lifebuoy on either side with a buoyant lifeline of the required length.
• Lifebuoys were not readily available on both sides of the ship, on each open deck or in the vicinity of the
stern.
• Lifebuoy stowage locations were not clearly marked with the approved symbols.
• Lifebuoys were:
o Not marked with retro-reflective tape.
o Not clearly marked with ship’s name and port of registry.
o Secured in their brackets and not ready for immediate use.
o Fitted with defective self-igniting lights.
o Fitted with self-igniting lights not of an electric battery type.
o Fitted with a non-intrinsically safe light when located within the gas hazardous area of the vessel.
• A self-activating smoke float was past its expiry date.
• The self-activating smoke float quick release mechanism was not operating freely.
• A lifebuoy attached to a self-activating smoke float was less than 4 kg.
• Records of inspections and maintenance carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the lifebuoys indicated that recorded inspections and maintenance had not taken place
• Lifebuoys, associated lights, smoke floats or lifelines were defective in any respect.
• The accompanying officer and/or the Safety Officer was unfamiliar with the required maintenance and
inspection of the lifebuoys, and associated lights, smoke floats and lifelines.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
