## Question 5.4.1

**Paragraph Number:**
5.4.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the operation of the davit-launched
lifeboats, release mechanisms and launching appliances, and were they in good order
with records available to demonstrate that they had been inspected and tested as
required?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Lifeboat deck
Publications
OCIMF: Survival Craft – A Seafarer’s Guide
IMO: LSA Code
IMO: Resolution MSC.402(96) Requirements for maintenance
thorough examination
operational testing
overhaul and repair of lifeboats and rescue boats
launching appliances and release gear
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the lifeboats, release mechanisms and launching appliances will be ready for immediate use in an
emergency.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure to ensure the lifeboats, release mechanisms
and launching appliances were periodically inspected and tested and ready for immediate use in an
emergency.
• Review records of periodic inspections and tests of the lifeboats, release mechanisms and launching
appliances.
• Inspect the lifeboats, release mechanisms and launching appliances.
• Inspect the lifting hooks and their associated structure where they connect to the lifeboat keel and verify that
the structure was free from corrosion which might affect the strength.
• If safe to do so, request that the accompanying officer to start a lifeboat engine and demonstrate the
propeller moving in the ahead and astern direction.
• Select several items from the monthly inspection check list required by SOLAS III/ 36 and verify that the
accompanying officer was familiar with how the checks or tests were performed.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the operation, inspection and testing of the
lifeboats, release mechanisms and launching appliances.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure to ensure lifeboats, release mechanisms and launching appliances were
periodically inspected and tested and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• A copy of the monthly inspection checklist required by SOLAS III/36.
• The Bridge Log Book.
• Records of periodic inspections and tests of the lifeboats, release mechanisms and launching appliances.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no procedure to ensure the lifeboats, release mechanisms and launching appliances were
periodically inspected and tested and ready for immediate use in an emergency.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the operation of the lifeboats, release mechanisms and
launching appliances.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the required inspection and testing of the lifeboats, release
mechanisms and launching appliances.
• Records of weekly and monthly inspections and routine maintenance of the lifeboats, release mechanisms
and launching appliances were incomplete.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Records of annual and five-yearly thorough examinations and tests of the lifeboats, release mechanisms
and launching appliances were incomplete.
• There were no checklists as required by SOLAS III/36 available for the inspection of the lifeboats, release
mechanisms and launching appliances.
• Records indicated the lifeboat falls had been in service for longer than five years.
• A lifeboat was not marked as required.
• There were no clear operating instructions provided in the lifeboat for the on-load release mechanism, with a
suitably worded warning notice.
• The on-load release control was not clearly marked in a colour that contrasted with its surroundings.
• Items of lifeboat equipment were damaged, missing or improperly stowed.
• A lifeboat engine would not start.
• There were no water-resistant instructions for starting and operating the engine mounted in a conspicuous
place near the engine starting controls.
• When tested, it could not be demonstrated that the gear box and gear box train were engaging satisfactorily.
• Indicated pressure for the self-contained air-support system, if fitted, was not with the normal range.
• The pressurised air hoses of the self-contained air-support system, if fitted, were in poor condition.
• Nozzles for the water spray fire-protection system, if fitted, were clogged by salt and/or scale.
• The launching appliance gearcase breather vent was blocked or painted over.
• Lifeboat davit limit switches were not operating freely.
• The lifeboat falls or gripes were in poor condition.
• Inspection of the lifeboats, release mechanisms and launching appliances indicated that actions recorded in
the maintenance plan had not in fact taken place.
• The lifeboats and launching appliances and their locations were not marked with the required symbols.
• Lifeboats, release mechanisms and launching appliances were defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
