## Question 5.4.7

**Paragraph Number:**
5.4.7

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the immersion suits, and were
the immersion suits in good order, readily accessible and their location(s) clearly
indicated?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Forecastle, Lifeboat deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: LSA Code
IMO: MSC/Circ.1047 Guidelines for monthly shipboard inspection of immersion suits and anti-exposure suits by
ships’ crews
IMO: MSC/Circ.1114 Guidelines for periodic testing of immersion suit and anti-exposure suit seams and closures
Norwegian Maritime Authority Circular- Series 5 No 14/2017 Vacuum packed immersion suits

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all life-saving appliances are in working order and ready for immediate use.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures to ensure that immersion suits are in good
order, readily accessible and their location(s) clearly indicated.
• Inspect the ship’s immersion suits at one stowage location.
• Sight the immersion suits at any other location(s).
• Review the records of monthly inspections and periodic air-pressure tests of the ship’s immersion suits.
• Interview an officer or rating to verify their familiarity with donning an immersion suit.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures to ensure that immersion suits are in good order, readily accessible and their
location(s) clearly indicated.
• Records of monthly inspections and periodic air-pressure tests of the ship’s immersion suits.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which defined the actions to be taken to ensure that immersion suits are
in good order, readily accessible and their location(s) clearly indicated.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the required inspection and tests required to be carried out for
the immersion suits in accordance with the company procedures.
• An interviewed officer or rating was not familiar with the instructions for donning an immersion suit.
• An immersion suit of an appropriate size was not provided for each person on board.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The stowage location(s) of immersion suits were not clearly marked, including the number of suits in that
location, with the recommended symbols.
• Immersion suits of an appropriate number were not provided at the location of the forward liferaft or any
other required remote location.
• Immersion suits were not readily accessible.
• Donning instructions were not legible.
• Immersion suits did not match the description on their storage bags – size, type, etc.
• There was visible damage to immersion suits, e.g. failed seams, detached zips.
• Immersion suit zippers did not slide up and down easily or were not functional.
• Retro-reflective tape was in poor condition or missing.
• Whistles, if fitted, were missing or damaged.
• Lights, if fitted, were missing or past their battery expiry date.
• If required, immersion suits were not clearly marked to show that a lifejacket must be worn.
• If required, immersion suits were not clearly marked to show that warm clothing must be worn under the suit.
• If suits were vacuum-packed:
o Packaging was damaged and/or vacuum lost.
o There were no loose immersion suits available for training purposes.
o Air-pressure tests had not been performed either to manufacturer’s instructions or at intervals not
exceeding three years, or more frequently for suits over ten years of age.
• Records of inspections and air-pressure tests carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the immersion suits indicated that recorded inspections and tests had not taken place.
• One or more immersion suits was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
