## Question 5.4.9

**Paragraph Number:**
5.4.9

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the periodic
testing and maintenance of the emergency lighting system, was there evidence of
periodic testing, and was the system in proper operating condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Electrician / ETO, Engine Room, Steering Gear, Pumproom, Forecastle, Mooring Decks, Lifeboat deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IACS: UI SC 213 Arrangements for remotely located survival craft
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 46.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the emergency lighting system will operate correctly in the event of a loss of primary power
and lighting.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and where necessary review, the company procedures for the inspection and testing of the emergency
lighting system.
• Check records to verify that inspection and testing of the emergency lighting had taken place in accordance
with the company procedures.
• Request a demonstration of the emergency lighting.
• Inspect a representative sample of the emergency lights and verify that they are working.
• During the balance of the inspection, note any defects to emergency lights.
• In at least one location, verify that arrangements for lighting the area of water into which survival craft would
be launched were in satisfactory condition.
• Interview the officer responsible for electrical systems to verify their familiarity with company procedures for
the inspection and testing of the emergency lighting system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the inspection and testing of the emergency lighting system.
• Records of inspection and testing of the emergency lighting system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the inspection and testing of the emergency lighting system.
• Company procedures did not require the emergency lighting to be inspected and tested at least once per
week.
• The responsible officer was not familiar with company procedures for the inspection and testing of the
emergency lighting system.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the location of the switches to turn on the emergency source
of lighting.
• Records indicated that emergency lighting had not been inspected and tested in compliance with company
procedures.
• There were no records of the inspection and testing of the emergency lighting system.
• One or more emergency lights were:
o Not working.
o Dirty/obscured.
o Filled with water.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Arrangements for lighting the area of water into which survival craft would be launched were not in
satisfactory condition.
• The emergency lighting system was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
5.5. Permits to work
