## Question 5.5.3

**Paragraph Number:**
5.5.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the company procedure for
working at height, and was there evidence that risk control measures such as permits to
work or documented risk assessments were consistently used whenever work was
undertaken at height?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Exterior Decks, Interview - Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that work at height is always conducted in a controlled manner with procedures to manage and
mitigate risk to workers.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company safe work procedure for working at height.
• Review several recent work at height permits or risk assessments and verify that:
o The work described in the permits and/or risk assessments reflected the circumstances found
onboard the vessel being inspected.
o The permits and/or risk assessments were approved in accordance with the company procedure.
• Review the work at height PPE and specialist equipment inventory and periodic inspection checklist and
verify that checks had been completed in accordance with the company work at height procedure.
• Inspect a selection of specialist working at height PPE and equipment provided onboard and verify that the
condition reflected that as reported in the most recent periodic check.
• Interview a deck or engine rating to verify their understanding of the company safe working procedure for
working at height and their involvement with either the permit or risk assessment review process.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company safe work procedures for working at height.
• The working at height permits or risk assessments for the previous two months.
• Records of the periodic checks of working at height PPE and specialist equipment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company safe working procedure which included working at height.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There was no requirement to complete a permit or risk assessment when working at height unless the
company procedure provided specific exclusions.
• There was no requirement to check PPE and specialist working at height equipment periodically and record
the inventory and condition of the equipment.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company working at height safe work procedures.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the requirement to conduct periodic checks on specialist
working at height PPE and equipment.
• There was evidence that work at height had been undertaken that required either a work at height permit or
a documented risk assessment but where neither was available for review.
• Reviewed permits or risk assessments did not reflect the work at height described and/or circumstances
found onboard the inspected vessel.
• Work at height permits or risk assessments has not been approved at the appropriate level in accordance
with the company procedure.
• There were no records of inventory and/or periodic checks of specialist working at height PPE and
equipment.
• Specialist working at height PPE and/or equipment was found to be in apparently poor condition.
• An interviewed rating was unfamiliar with the company safe working procedures for working at height and
either the related permit or risk assessment review process.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
