## Question 5.5.4

**Paragraph Number:**
5.5.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the company procedures for
working over the side, and was there evidence that risk control measures such as
standard work procedures, permits to work or documented risk assessments were
consistently used whenever work was undertaken over the side?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Main Deck, Interview - Deck Rating
Publications
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that work over the side is always conducted in a controlled manner with procedures to manage
and mitigate risk to workers.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company safe work procedures for working over the side.
• Review any standard work procedures for working over the side while the vessel was underway such as for
rigging a combination or accommodation ladder.
• Review several recent work over the side permits or risk assessments and verify that:
o The work described in the permits and/or risk assessments reflected the circumstances found
onboard the vessel being inspected.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The permits and/or risk assessments were approved in accordance with the company procedure.
• Review the working at height and over the side PPE and specialist equipment inventory and periodic
inspection checklist. Verify that checks had been completed in accordance with the company work at height
and over the side procedure.
• Inspect a selection of specialist working at height and over the side PPE and equipment provided onboard
and verify that the condition reflected that as reported in the most recent periodic check.
• Interview a deck rating to verify their understanding of the company safe working procedure for working over
the side with specific reference to:
o Their involvement with either the permit or risk assessment review process.
o Rigging a combination or an accommodation ladder while the ship was underway and the required
level of supervision on deck and from the bridge.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company safe work procedures for working over the side.
• Standard work procedures for work over the side that did not require a permit or risk assessment to be
prepared on each occasion.
• The work over the side permits or risk assessments for the previous six months.
• Records of the periodic checks of specialist working at height and over the side PPE and equipment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company safe working procedure which included working over the side.
• There was no requirement to complete a permit or risk assessment when working over the side unless the
company procedures provided specific exclusions.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company working over the side safe work procedure.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the requirement to conduct periodic checks on specialist
working at height and over the side PPE and equipment.
• There was evidence that work over the side had been undertaken that required either a work over the side
permit or a documented risk assessment, but where neither was available for review.
• Reviewed permits or risk assessments did not reflect the work over the side described and/or circumstances
found onboard the inspected vessel.
• Work over the side permits or risk assessments has not been approved at the appropriate level in
accordance with the company procedure.
• There were no records of inventory and/or periodic checks of specialist working at height and over the side
PPE and equipment.
• Specialist working at height and over the side PPE and/or equipment was found to be in apparently poor
condition.
• An interviewed rating was unfamiliar with the company safe working procedure for working over the side and
either the related standard procedure(s) or, the permit or risk assessment review process.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
