## Question 5.5.5

**Paragraph Number:**
5.5.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for working on
electrical equipment and systems, and was there evidence that risk control measures
such as permits to work and/or documented risk assessments were consistently used
whenever work was undertaken on electrical equipment and systems?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Steering Gear, Bridge, Engine Room, Forecastle, Engine Control Room, Interview - Electrician / ETO
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that work on electrical equipment and systems is always conducted in a controlled manner with
procedures to manage and mitigate risk to workers.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company safe work procedures for working on electrical equipment
or systems.
• Where necessary, review the planned maintenance system or daily work planning meeting records to
identify when work on electrical equipment or systems may have taken place.
• Review at least two recent permits and/or risk assessments for work on electrical equipment or systems and
verify that:
o The work described in the permits and/or risk assessments reflected the circumstances found
onboard the vessel being inspected.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The permits and/or risk assessments were approved in accordance with the company procedure.
• During the general inspection of the vessel, confirm that a notice of instructions on the treatment of electric
shock was posted in spaces containing electric equipment and switchgear.
• Interview the electrician or, where no electrician was on board, an appropriate engineer officer to verify their
understanding of:
o The company safe working procedure for working on electrical equipment or systems.
o The electrical work permit and/or risk assessment development, review and approval processes.
o The additional control measures required when working on:
 High-voltage systems and equipment.
 Live electrical equipment.
 Live electrical test benches.
 Electrical equipment or systems in hazardous areas.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company safe work procedure for working on electrical equipment or systems.
• The work on electrical equipment or systems permits and/or risk assessments for the previous two months.
• Access to the planned maintenance system.
• Access the daily work planning meeting records.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company safe working procedure which included working on electrical equipment or systems.
• There was no requirement to complete a permit and/or risk assessment when working on electrical
equipment or systems.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company safe work procedure for working on electrical
equipment or systems.
• An interviewed electrician or engineer officer was unfamiliar with
o The company safe working procedure for working on electrical equipment or systems and either the
related permit and/or risk assessment development, review and approval process.
o The additional control measures required when working on:
 High-voltage systems and equipment.
 Live electrical equipment.
 Live electrical test benches.
 Electrical equipment or systems in hazardous areas.
• There was evidence that work on electrical equipment or systems had been undertaken that required either
a permit and/or a documented risk assessment but the required documentation had not been completed or
was not available for review.
• Reviewed permits and/or risk assessments did not reflect the work on electrical equipment or systems
described and/or the circumstances found onboard the inspected vessel.
• Work on electrical equipment or systems permits or risk assessments had not been approved at the
appropriate level in accordance with the company procedure.
• There was no documented supervision/oversight for tasks where the company procedure required such
oversight to be in place.
• Notices of instructions for the treatment of electric shock were not posted in spaces containing electric
equipment and switchgear.
Where no permits and/or risk assessments for work on electrical equipment or systems had been completed or
approved during the previous two months, make a comment in the Process response tool noting the date of the last
occasion when work on electrical equipment or systems had been documented.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
