## Question 5.5.2

**Paragraph Number:**
5.5.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and, where directly involved, ratings familiar with the
company hot work procedure, and was evidence available to demonstrate that hot work
had been conducted in accordance with the procedure?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Engine Room, Main Deck, Interview - Engine Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that hot work is always carried out in a controlled manner.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company hot work procedures.
• If hot work had taken place within any hazardous area during the previous six months, select not more than
two permits, and verify that:
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o A hot work plan had been developed for the proposed hot work showing separate responsibilities
for work supervision and safety.
o A risk assessment had been prepared for the proposed hot work.
o A work planning meeting had been completed.
o Documented shore management approval had been obtained to complete the hot work as planned.
o A hot work permit had been issued, completed and approved on board in accordance with the hot
work plan and the terms of the shore management approval.
• If hot work had not taken place in any hazardous areas during the previous six months, select not more than
two permits for hot work outside the designated space, but within other parts of the non-hazardous area, and
verify that:
o A hot work plan had been developed for the proposed hot work showing separate responsibilities
for work supervision and safety.
o A risk assessment had been prepared for the proposed hot work.
o A work planning meeting had been completed.
o A hot work permit had been issued, completed and approved on board in accordance with the hot
work plan and the company hot work procedure.
• While in the designated space, typically, but not necessarily, the machinery space workshop, review the
onboard instructions for undertaking hot work in the space and verify they included instructions regarding:
o When hot work may be conducted in the designated space.
o When hot work is prohibited in the designated space.
o Who is permitted to conduct hot work in the designated space.
o The requirement to complete or review a risk assessment during a work planning meeting.
o The requirement to work in the designated space with a shield or curtain erected.
o The requirement to gain authorisation from the Master or Responsible Officer before hot work may
begin.
o Considerations around preventing unintended activation of the ship’s fire alarm system.
• During the balance of the inspection verify that no recent undocumented hot work had taken place outside of
the designated space, without a hot work permit.
• Interview one engine room rating to verify their understanding of the hot work instructions for the designated
space.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company hot work procedures.
• The hot work permits issued onboard the vessel during the previous six months, supplemented by:
o The risk assessment relating to the specific hot work task.
o The work plan relating to the specific hot work task.
o Evidence that a work planning meeting had been held.
o Documented approval for the hot work from shore management, where required.
• The onboard instructions for conducting hot work in the designated space.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company hot work procedures.
• The company hot work procedures were not in alignment with the guidance provided by ISGOTT Chapter 9.
• Evidence was available that hot work had been conducted anywhere outside of the designated space
without the issue of a hot work permit.
• Hot work permits had been issued without:
o A risk assessment being prepared for the specific hot work task.
o A work plan being prepared for the specific hot work task.
o A work planning meeting taking place.
o Documented approval for the hot work from the shore management being provided, where required
by the company hot work procedure.
o Approval by the Master or, a designated Responsible Officer, where the company procedure
specifically permitted a permit to be approved by anyone other than the Master.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There were no instructions for conducting hot work posted in the designated space.
• The instructions for conducting hot work in the designated space did not define:
o When hot work may be conducted in the designated space.
o When hot work must not be conducted in the designated space.
o Who may conduct hot work in the designated space.
o The requirement to work in the designated space with a shield or curtain erected.
o The requirement to gain permission from the Master or designated Responsible Officer before
conducting hot work in the designated space.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company hot work procedures, any aspect of the hot work
permit process or the safety precautions referred to within the company hot work procedures or permit.
• Evidence was available that hot work had taken place in the designated space in contravention to the
onboard instructions or the guidance provided in ISGOTT chapter 9.
• An interviewed engine rating was unfamiliar with the designated space hot work instructions.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
