## Question 5.5.6

**Paragraph Number:**
5.5.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the control
of hazardous energy, and was evidence available, through documented risk assessment
or permits, that hazardous energy sources were routinely identified and isolated before
working on, or in, machinery, systems or spaces where hazardous energy could be
present?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Engine Control Room, Interview - Deck Officer, Interview - Engineer Officer
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that hazardous energy sources are always identified and effectively isolated before work starts on,
or in, machinery, systems or spaces where hazardous energy sources could be present.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company control of hazardous energy procedures.
• Review at least two recent permits, risk assessments or other work process documents which were used to
identify and control hazardous energy sources before work on, or in, machinery, systems or spaces.
• If necessary, review the planned maintenance system to confirm that tasks that would require the
identification and control of hazardous energy sources in accordance with the company procedure had an
accompanying permit, risk assessment or other work process document available.
• Interview one deck or engineer officer to verify their understanding of:
o The company control of hazardous energy procedures and the use of permits, risk assessment or
other documented work processes to identify and document sources of hazardous energy before
starting work.
o The process to verify a zero-energy state of a source of hazardous energy.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company control of hazardous energy procedures.
• Permits, Safety Critical Task Assessments, risk assessments or other documented work processes that had
been used to identify and control hazardous energy sources for the previous three months.
• The daily work planning records.
• The Bridge Log Book.
• The Engine Room Logbook.
• The planned maintenance system.
• The inventory of specialist LO/TO equipment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There were no company control of hazardous energy procedures.
• There was no specialist LO/TO equipment available onboard.
• There was no inventory of specialist LO/TO equipment.
• Work had been completed that required either a permit, risk assessment or other documented work
procedure to identify and control hazardous energy sources according to the company procedure, but none
had been completed.
• An interviewed deck or engineer officer was unfamiliar with the company control of hazardous energy
procedures.
• An interviewed deck or engineer officer was unfamiliar with the process to identify and document the
isolation of hazardous energy sources before starting work on, or in, machinery, systems or spaces where
hazardous energy sources were present.
• LO/TO equipment was found to be attached to machinery or systems during the inspection but there were
no accompanying permits, risk assessment or other documented work process to document the reason for
the equipment being locked and/or tagged out.
• Permits, risk assessment or other documented work processes were in force for hazardous energy isolation,
but the isolation points identified were not locked and/or tagged out as required by the company procedure.
• Machinery or systems were found disassembled or under repair with no isolation of hazardous energy
sources.
Where no records were available for the control of hazardous sources of energy for the previous three months, make
a comment in the Process response tool and note the date of the last occasion for which control measures for
hazardous energy had been documented.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
5.6. Fixed and portable gas detecting systems
