## Question 5.5.1

**Paragraph Number:**
5.5.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the company enclosed space
entry procedures, and was evidence available to demonstrate that all enclosed space
entries had been made in strict compliance with the procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Cargo Control Room, Engine Control Room, Interview - Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: Resolution A.1050(27) Revised Recommendations for Entering Enclosed Spaces Aboard Ships.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that enclosed space entry is always strictly controlled and conducted in accordance with industry
best practice.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company enclosed space entry procedures.
• Review the categorisation of enclosed spaces onboard which identified spaces that:
o Required the issue of an enclosed space entry permit.
o Did not require the issue of an enclosed space entry permit but where entry was controlled through
an alternative documented process.
• Identify through the review of the planned maintenance system or recent cargo operations where enclosed
space entry would have taken place and review an enclosed space entry permit for at least two of the
following types of enclosed spaces:
o Cargo spaces.
o Double bottom space.
o Fuel tank.
o Ballast tank.
o Cargo pumproom.
o Cargo compressor room.
o Cofferdam.
o Chain locker.
o Void space.
o Duct keel.
o Inter-barrier space.
o Engine crank case or scavenge air receiver.
o Sewage tank.
o Boiler.
o Nitrogen generator room.
o Inert gas plant room.
o Ballast water treatment plant room.
• Review the selected enclosed space entry permits and verify that:
o A detailed risk assessment had been developed and/or reviewed prior to each enclosed space
entry.
o The permit period of validity was clearly indicated and did not exceed 12 hours.
o Each space had been cleaned as required, in accordance with the company procedure. Consider
cross referencing with the oil record book or the garbage log to establish how any wash water or
residues were disposed of.
o The pre-entry atmosphere checks for oxygen content and flammable, toxic, explosive and/or
asphyxiant vapours or gasses were appropriate for the space and its previous content or usage.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The permits or supplementary documentation identified the connecting pipelines, valves and/or
electrical power/equipment that had been blanked or isolated
o The balance of the permits had been completed as required.
o The permits had been signed by:
 The Master or nominated responsible person in accordance with the company procedure.
 The attendant.
 The person(s) entering the space.
 The responsible person supervising entry.
o The permits had not been approved by the same individual who was making the enclosed space
entry.
• Where company procedures did not require the issue of a permit for entry into the cargo pumproom, cargo
compressor room, nitrogen generator room, inert gas plant room or ballast water treatment plant room, verify
that the checks required by the company procedure for entry into such spaces were being adhered to with
documented records of gas measurements and entry and exit times for each entry.
• Interview one rating to verify their familiarity with their role in enclosed space entry, when and how they were
briefed and, the process for signing a permit as either an attendant or as a person entering the space.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which defined the enclosed space entry requirements for the identified enclosed
spaces found onboard.
• The enclosed space entry permits for the previous six months for:
o Spaces under the control of the engineering department.
o Spaces under the control of the deck department.
• The cargo pumproom, cargo compressor room, nitrogen generator room, inert gas plant room and/or ballast
water treatment plant room entry records for the previous two months.
• The Bridge Log Book for the previous six months
• The planned maintenance system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company enclosed space entry procedures.
• The company enclosed space entry procedures had not identified all spaces that were considered to be
enclosed spaces along with corresponding precautions for entering each type of identified enclosed space.
• There was no evidence that documented risk assessments were completed and/or reviewed before each
enclosed space entry.
• The company enclosed entry procedure did not give clear guidance on the requirement to clean cargo,
bunker and ballast tanks prior to entry based on the previous content.
• Company procedures did not require the completion of an enclosed space entry permit when entering a
space meeting the definition of an enclosed space. (This does not include where an alternative documented
procedure existed for entering the cargo pumproom, cargo compressor room, nitrogen generator room, inert
gas plant room or ballast water treatment plant room).
• Where company procedures did not require the completion of an enclosed space entry permit when entering
a cargo pumproom, cargo compressor room, nitrogen generator room, inert gas plant room or ballast water
treatment plant room, there was no alternative procedure requiring:
o Atmosphere measurements for oxygen content and toxic, flammable, explosive or asphyxiant
gasses were taken and recorded prior to entry.
o That the entry and exit time of each individual who entered the space was recorded.
• The company enclosed space entry procedures had not identified any additional precautions required prior
to entering ballast tanks as a result of the use of the Ballast Water Management System.
• Evidence was available that enclosed space entry had taken place without the issue of an enclosed entry
permit in accordance with company procedures.
• Evidence was available that a cargo pumproom, compressor room, nitrogen generator room, inert gas plant
room or ballast water treatment plant room had been entered without the issue of an enclosed space entry
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
permit or, where a permit was not required, recording of atmosphere checks prior to entry and recording the
entry and exit times for each individual.
• Evidence was available that CABA, ELSA or EEBD sets had been used for routine enclosed space entry as
a substitute for cleaning and gas freeing a space for safe entry.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company enclosed space entry procedure and/or the
process of using or retaining the company enclosed space entry permits.
• An interviewed rating was unfamiliar with the enclosed space entry procedure and their role in signing the
enclosed space entry permit as either an attendant or someone who enters the space.
• A reviewed enclosed space entry permit was found to be incomplete or missing information required to be
entered in accordance with the company enclosed space entry procedure.
• A reviewed enclosed space entry permit indicated that not all atmosphere measurements appropriate to the
previous content or use of the space had been taken and recorded.
• There was no documented evidence for segregating a space by blanking off or isolating all connecting
pipelines or valves and electrical power/equipment during a reviewed enclosed space entry, where such
isolation would have been necessary.
• A cargo tank had been entered without being cleaned in accordance with the company enclosed space entry
procedure.
• An enclosed space entry permit was completed and approved by the same individual who entered the
space.
• Personal multi-gas detectors were not required to be used during enclosed space entry.
• Dedicated rescue and/or resuscitation equipment was observed to be in poor condition.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
