## Question 5.6.4

**Paragraph Number:**
5.6.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the vessel’s fixed gas detection system required by the IGF Code, and was the
equipment in good working order, regularly maintained and calibrated in accordance
with company procedures and manufacturer’s instructions?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGF Code
IMO: A 31/Res.1140 Survey guidelines under the harmonized system of survey and certification (HSSC)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vessel is protected from the consequences of unintentional releases or leaks from the gas
or other low-flashpoint fuel system.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which defined the operation and maintenance
requirements for the fixed gas detecting system required by the IGF Code.
• Inspect the central control station for the gas detection system and verify that:
o The gas detecting system was fully operational.
o The system was not indicating any faults.
o The alarm activation set point for a selected sensor was in accordance with the IGF code
requirements.
• Review the inspection and calibration data available at the central control station and verify that:
o Sensor calibration had been completed at the defined frequency.
o Safety system shut down tests had been completed at the required frequency.
• Inspect the calibration gas used to calibrate/test the gas detector sensors and verify that it met the
specifications as defined by the manufacturer.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests, calibration and maintenance carried out contained
within the maintenance plan.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation and calibration of the
fixed gas detecting system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which defined the requirements for operating and testing the fixed gas detecting
system required under the IGF Code.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The manufacturer’s instruction manual for the fixed gas detecting system.
• The Inspection, calibration and maintenance records for the fixed gas detection system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which defined the requirements for operating and testing the fixed gas
detecting system required under the IGF Code.
• The vessel’s maintenance plan did not include the fixed gas detecting system required under the IGF Code.
• The maintenance plan did not define the frequency of sensor calibration and automated gas safety system
shut down tests.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedure for the operation and maintenance
of the fixed gas detection system.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the maintenance plan tasks for fixed gas detector sensor
calibration or gas safety system shut down tests.
• The fixed gas detecting system sensors had not been calibrated in accordance with the maintenance plan.
• The calibration gas used for calibrating the sensors did not meet the manufacturer’s specification or was out
of date.
• Records of inspections, tests, maintenance and calibrations were incomplete.
• The audible and visible alarms located on the navigation bridge or in the continuously manned central
control station had not been tested in accordance with the company procedure.
• The fixed gas detector alarm or automatic shutdown activation set points were not in accordance with the
requirements of the IGF Code.
• One or more gas detector sensors were out of service.
• One or more gas detector sensors were inhibited or disconnected from the sampling sequence.
• The fixed gas detecting system was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
