## Question 5.6.5

**Paragraph Number:**
5.6.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the operation and maintenance of the
cargo pump room fixed gas detection system, and was the equipment fully operational
with sensors calibrated and alarm activation points set in accordance with company
procedures and manufacturer's instructions?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Pumproom
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ. 1321 Guidelines for measures to prevent fires in engine-rooms and cargo pump-rooms.
IMO: MSC/Circ.1120 Unified interpretations of SOLAS Chapter II-2
The FSS Code
The FTP Code and related fire test procedures.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that measures specifically designed to prevent fire in the pumproom are effective.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for the operation and maintenance of the cargo
pump room fixed gas detection system.
• Inspect the central control station for the pump room fixed gas detection system and verify that:
o The gas detection system was fully operational.
o The system was not indicating any faults.
o The alarm activation setting for a selected hydrocarbon sensor was in accordance with the SOLAS
requirement of not greater than 10% LFL.
o The alarm activation setting for selected oxygen and toxic gas sensors, where fitted, were in
accordance with the company procedure.
• Review the inspection and calibration data for the gas detection system available in the cargo control room
and verify that:
o Each gas detection sensor had been calibrated at the frequency defined by the company.
o The hydrocarbon gas alarm activation set point for each sensor had been verified as being
appropriate to the cargo being carried.
o The audible and visual alarms in the pump room, the cargo control room and on the bridge had
been tested at the frequency defined by the company.
o Calibration of each sensor had been carried out with an appropriate span gas in accordance with
the manufacturer’s instructions.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests, calibration and maintenance carried out contained
within the maintenance plan.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation and calibration of the
cargo pump room fixed gas detection system.
For this question the sensors fitted in the exhaust ducts should not be considered, as any gas going into the ducts is
heavily diluted and provides a false sense of security if the gas alarm for the duct is set to a level similar to that for the
pump room sensors.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the maintenance and operation of the cargo pumproom gas detection system.
• The manufacturer’s instruction manual for the pumproom fixed gas detection system.
• The maintenance and calibration records for the cargo pumproom gas detection system.
• Where the fixed gas detection system was out of service, records of manual atmosphere measurements.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for the maintenance and operation of the pumproom gas detection
system.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the operation and maintenance of the pumproom gas
detection system.
• The alarm activation point of one or more hydrocarbon gas sensors was more than 10% LFL.
• The gas detection sensors had not been calibrated in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions at the
frequency defined by the company.
• The audible and visual alarms in the cargo control room, pumproom and on the bridge had not been tested
at the frequency defined by the company.
• The calibration gas used for calibration of the hydrocarbon, toxic gas or oxygen sensors was out of date or
not appropriate for use with the system.
• One or more hydrocarbon gas, toxic gas or oxygen sensors were out of service.
• One or more hydrocarbon gas, toxic gas or oxygen sensors were inhibited or disconnected from the
sampling sequence.
• The gas detection system was defective in any respect.
• Where the pumproom gas detection system was out of service, there was no record of manual atmosphere
measurements having been taken.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
