## Question 5.6.3

**Paragraph Number:**
5.6.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the vessel’s fixed gas detection systems required by the IGC Code, and was the
equipment in good working order, regularly maintained and calibrated?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Cargo Control Room
Publications
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vessel staff can detect unintentional releases or leaks from the cargo system.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation and maintenance of the fixed
gas detecting systems required under the IGC code.
• Inspect the central control station for the fixed gas detection systems and verify that:
o The fixed gas detecting systems were monitoring all sensors provided.
o There were no fault alarms showing for either the systems or individual sensors.
o The value shown by each sensor was normal based on the location and atmosphere being
sampled.
o The alarm set points for each sensor had been adjusted to the requirements of the IGC code and
the company procedure.
o Where a sensor was sampling from an inert atmosphere, the alarm set points had been adjusted to
activate when the vapour concentration by volume reached the equivalent of 30% LFL in air.
o Where the vessel could carry different grades of cargo, the individual alarm sensor set points had
been adjusted to reflect the cargo being carried at the time.
• Review the calibration data available at the central control station and verify:
o The individual sensors had been calibrated in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and
company procedure.
o The alarm set points had been confirmed as correct.
o The automatic shutdown set points, where applicable, had been confirmed as correct.
• Sight the list of portable gas detecting equipment provided to comply with the IGC code and verify the
equipment was available.
• Review the inventory of calibration gases and equipment and verify that sufficient materials were onboard to
conduct sensor calibrations in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
• Where the vessel was utilising portable gas detecting equipment to comply with the monitoring of toxic
gases, verify that routine gas measurements had been taken and recorded in accordance with the company
procedure.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out contained in the
maintenance plan.
• Interview the accompanying or responsible officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose and operation of
the fixed gas detecting system.
The maintenance and calibration of portable gas detecting equipment required under the IGC code is dealt with in a
separate question.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation and maintenance of the fixed gas detecting systems required
under the IGC code.
• Inspection, calibration and maintenance records for the fixed gas detection systems.
• The list of fixed gas detector sensors and the corresponding alarm (and where appropriate, automatic
shutdown) set points.
• The manufacturer's calibration instructions for the fixed gas detecting systems and sensors.
• Where the vessel was utilising portable gas detecting equipment to comply with the IGC code, the records of
routine toxic gas monitoring measurements.
• The list of portable gas detector equipment carried to comply with the IGC code.
• The inventory of sensor calibration gases and equipment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for the operation and maintenance of the fixed gas detecting systems
required by the IGC code.
• The fixed gas detection systems required by the IGC code were:
o Not monitoring all sensors provided by the systems.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Indicating a system fault.
o Indicating that one or more sensors was defective.
• The alarm (and, where appropriate, automated shut down) set points for each fixed gas detector sensor
were not set as required by the IGC code or the company procedure.
• Fixed gas detector sensors had not been calibrated in accordance with manufacturer's instructions and
company procedures.
• Fixed gas detector sensor alarms set points had not been adjusted to the appropriate value corresponding
to the cargo being carried.
• The calibration gases available onboard were either of the incorrect type or out of date.
• Calibration equipment required to conduct sensor calibration in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions was not available onboard.
• The gas detection equipment was located in a non-hazardous space, but the steel enclosure was not
capable of being sealed or was routinely left open.
• Portable gas detecting equipment required to be carried in accordance with the IGC code was not available.
• Where portable gas detecting equipment had been used to comply with the requirements of the IGC code,
there were no records available for the routine gas monitoring required to be undertaken in accordance with
company procedures.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose and operation of the vessel’s fixed gas detection
systems.
• The accompanying or responsible officer was not familiar with the calibration procedure for the fixed gas
detection systems.
• The maintenance plan did not include the vessel’s fixed gas detection systems or all the required
inspections, tests, and maintenance, including calibrations.
• Records of inspections, tests, maintenance and calibrations carried out were incomplete.
• Inspection of the vessel’s fixed gas detection systems indicated that actions recorded in the plan had not in
fact taken place.
• The fixed gas detecting systems required by the IGC code were defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
