## Question 5.6.1

**Paragraph Number:**
5.6.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the purpose, operation, testing,
maintenance and calibration of the vessel’s portable and personal gas measurement
instruments, and was the equipment on board sufficient, in good working order, regularly
tested and periodically calibrated?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Pumproom
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IGC Code
IMO: IBC Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1456 Unified interpretations of SOLAS Chapter II-2 and the FSS and FTP codes
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1477. Guidelines to facilitate the selection of portable atmosphere testing instruments for enclosed
spaces as required by SOLAS Regulation XI-1/7.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1561 Unified interpretation of SOLAS regulation XI-1/7

---

### **Objective**
To ensure sufficient calibrated portable and personal gas measurement instruments are always available on
board to enable safe enclosed space entry and cargo operations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review the:
o Company procedures for the operation, testing, maintenance and calibration of the portable and
personal gas measurement instruments.
o Instruction manuals for the portable and personal gas measurement instruments.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Inspect the:
o Portable and personal gas measurement instruments.
o Associated spare parts and test gases.
o The tubes, chips or other consumables available on board for measuring toxic gases.
o Hoses or cables used to sample tank atmospheres and verify that they were of sufficient length to
reach the bottom of the deepest tank.
• Review the:
o Inventory of portable and personal gas measurement instruments, spare parts, test gases and
tubes, chips or other consumables for measuring toxic gases.
o Test and calibration records for the portable and personal gas measurement instruments.
o Records of the date when each disposable personal gas monitor was first commissioned.
• Interview the accompanying officer to assess their familiarity with the:
o Purpose and operation of the portable and personal gas measurement instruments.
o Testing, maintenance and calibration of the portable and personal gas measurement instruments,
including the correct use of test gases.
o Records required to be kept for the portable and personal gas measurement instruments.
• Request that the accompanying officer demonstrates the pre-operational accuracy test, in accordance with
the manufacturer’s instructions, for a selected portable or personal gas measurement instrument.
Where the vessel was provided with portable gas measuring equipment and consumables from different
manufacturer’s the vessel staff must be able to demonstrate that the items are mutually compatible through
manufacturer’s instructions. (Particularly when considering gas testing tubes and hand pumps)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, testing, maintenance and calibration of the vessel’s portable and
personal gas measurement instruments.
• The inventory of portable and personal gas measurement instruments, spare parts, test gases and tubes,
chips or other consumables for measuring toxic gases.
• Instruction manuals for the portable and personal gas measurement instruments.
• Test and calibration records for the portable and personal gas measurement instruments.
• Records of the date when each disposable personal gas monitor was first commissioned.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, testing, maintenance and calibration of the portable
and personal gas measurement instruments.
• The accompanying officer was unable to explain or demonstrate:
o The type and number of portable and personal gas measurement instruments required to be
carried on board.
o The toxic gases or vapours for which tubes, chips or other consumables required to be carried
onboard.
o The purpose(s) and function(s) of each instrument, including the sensor technology utilised and
whether the instrument can be used in an inert atmosphere and/or at above atmospheric pressure.
o The circumstances under which some sensors fitted in measurement instruments provided may be
poisoned.
o The description and quantity of spare parts and test gases required to be carried on board.
o The method and frequency of testing and calibrating the gas measurement instruments.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The records of equipment, testing and calibration required to be maintained.
o The circumstances under which personal gas measurement instruments must be worn, e.g.
enclosed space, cargo tank and pump room entry.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the purpose and/or operation of the portable and personal gas
measurement instruments.
• An item of the required portable and personal gas measurement instruments was damaged or not
operational.
• An item of equipment required to permit the restricted or closed sampling of a tank atmosphere was missing
or defective.
• The accompanying officer was unable to describe the testing, maintenance and calibration of the portable
and personal gas measurement instruments required in accordance with the SMS and the manufacturers’
maintenance and operation manuals.
• There was no evidence that the required testing, maintenance and calibration of the portable and personal
gas measurement instruments had been performed in accordance with the SMS and the manufacturers’
maintenance and operation manuals.
• The vessel was not equipped with at least two instruments capable of measuring concentrations of oxygen,
flammable gases or vapours (% LFL), H2S and CO in order to carry out the tests required for enclosed
space entry.
• The vessel was not equipped with the required means to measure concentrations of toxic gases or vapours
that might be found in the cargoes carried.
• There were insufficient tubes, chips or other consumables available on board for the instruments used to
measure toxic gases.
• Hoses or cables used to sample tank atmospheres were of insufficient length to reach the bottom of the
deepest tank.
• The tubes, chips or other consumables available on board for measuring toxic gases were not suitable for
the toxic gases or vapours that might be found in the cargo being carried.
• The tubes, chips or other consumables available on board for measuring toxic gases were past their expiry
date.
• A tanker equipped with inert gas or that utilised nitrogen padding did not have an instrument(s) capable of
measuring oxygen and hydrocarbon content (% Vol) in an inert atmosphere.
• An instrument was used for measuring hydrocarbon content in an inert atmosphere that was not suitable for
this purpose.
• The vessel was not equipped with sufficient operational personal gas monitors to meet the requirements of
the SMS for enclosed space, cargo tank or pump room entry.
• The vessel was not equipped with sufficient operational person H2S gas monitors for personnel involved in
cargo and / or bunker operations where the cargo or bunkers were known or suspected of having a high
H2S content.
• There was no inventory available of the portable and personal gas measurement instruments, spare parts
and test gases carried on board.
• Records of the testing, maintenance and calibration of the portable and personal gas measurement
instruments required in accordance with the SMS and the manufacturers’ maintenance and operation
manuals were missing or incomplete.
• The date when each disposable personal gas monitor was first commissioned was not recorded in order to
establish their expiry date.
• Disposable personal gas monitors were in use past their expiry date.
• Manuals, in the working language of the ship, were not available for each item of portable and personal gas
measurement instruments carried on board.
• There were insufficient test gases available for the portable and personal gas measurement instruments.
• Test gases available on board were unsuitable for the portable and personal gas measurement instruments
carried.
• An incorrect test gas had been used to test a portable instrument.
• Records indicated the manufacturers’ recommended intervals for servicing the equipment and/or for the
replacement of parts such as filters had not been observed.
Do not make a written observation where portable or personal gas detecting equipment was defective or out of
service, providing:
• The vessel carried sufficient operational equipment to meet regulatory and operational requirements.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Defective equipment was clearly marked as out of service.
• Defective equipment had been reported within the defect reporting system.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
