## Question 5.6.6

**Paragraph Number:**
5.6.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the operation and maintenance of the
oxygen sensors and associated alarms fitted in the space, or spaces, containing the inert
gas system, and was the equipment fully operational with sensors calibrated and alarm
activation points set in accordance with company procedures and manufacturer's
instructions?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: FSS Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that entry into the space, or spaces, containing the inert gas plant is always made safely.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures that described the calibration, testing and
maintenance of the oxygen sensors and associated alarms fitted in the space, or spaces, containing the
inert gas system.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Inspect the control panel for the oxygen sensors and associated alarms fitted in the space, or spaces,
containing the inert gas system and verify that:
o The oxygen sensors and alarms were fully operational.
o The system was not indicating any faults.
o The alarm activation setting for the oxygen sensors was in accordance with the company
procedure.
• Review the inspection and calibration data for the oxygen sensors and verify that:
o Each oxygen sensor had been calibrated at the frequency defined by the company.
o The calibration of each sensor had been carried out with an appropriate span gas in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions.
o The audible and visual alarms had been tested at the frequency defined by the company.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests, calibration and maintenance carried out contained
within the maintenance plan.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation and calibration of the
oxygen sensors and associated alarms fitted in the space, or spaces, containing the inert gas system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the maintenance and operation of the oxygen sensors and associated alarms
fitted in the space or spaces containing the inert gas system.
• The manufacturer’s instruction manual for the oxygen sensors and associated alarms fitted in the space, or
spaces, containing the inert gas system.
• The maintenance and calibration records for the oxygen sensors fitted in the space, or spaces, containing
the inert gas system.
• Where the fixed oxygen sensor(s) were out of service, records of manual atmosphere measurements prior
to, and during, entry to the space, or spaces, containing the inert gas system while the inert gas system was
in operation.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure describing the maintenance and operation of the oxygen sensors and
associated alarms fitted in the space, or spaces, containing the inert gas system.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the operation and maintenance of the oxygen sensors and
associated alarms fitted in the space, or spaces, containing the inert gas system.
• The oxygen sensors had not been calibrated in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions at the frequency
defined by the company.
• The audible and visual alarms had not been tested at the frequency defined by the company.
• The calibration gas used for calibration of the oxygen sensors was out of date or not appropriate for use with
the system.
• One or more oxygen sensors were out of service.
• One or more oxygen sensors were inhibited or disconnected from the sampling sequence.
• The oxygen sensors and/or associated alarms were defective in any respect.
• Where the oxygen sensors and/or associated alarms fitted in the space or spaces containing the inert gas
system were out of service, there was no record of manual atmosphere measurements having been taken
prior to, and during, entry to the space, or spaces, while the inert gas system was in operation.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
5.7. Safety Management
