## Question 5.6.2

**Paragraph Number:**
5.6.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and deck officers familiar with the company procedures for testing
the atmosphere in double-hull and double bottom spaces for flammable gas, and were
records available to confirm that appropriate measurements had been taken using the
equipment fitted to, or provided on, the vessel?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: FSS Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that structural failures between cargo tanks adjacent to ballast tanks and void spaces of double-
hull and double-bottom spaces are promptly detected.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for detecting and monitoring flammable gas
concentrations in double-hull, double-bottom and void spaces.
• Review the records of flammable gas measurements in double-hull and double-bottom spaces and verify
that tests had been completed in accordance with company procedures.
• Where a vessel is required to be fitted with a fixed hydrocarbon gas detecting system in accordance with the
FSS Code, verify that sensors were isolated consistent with the ballast level in the individual tanks.
• Where a vessel was fitted with a fixed flammable gas detecting system outside the requirement of the FSS
Code, verify that manual gas measurements were made in accordance with company procedures whenever
a sensor was isolated due to ballast water content within a tank.
• Review the operation of the fixed flammable gas detecting system, where fitted, and confirm that the system
was fully operational with flammable gas alarm settings in accordance with the guidance provided under

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for detecting and monitoring flammable gas concentrations in double-hull, double-
bottom and void spaces.
• Records to demonstrate that hydrocarbon gas measurements had been undertaken in accordance with the
company procedure.
• Records to demonstrate that the fixed gas detecting system, where fitted, had been in continuous operation
and where individual tank sensors, or groups of sensors, had been isolated, the times of isolation and
reconnection.
• Calibration records for the fixed gas detecting system sensor(s).
• Incident investigation reports where flammable gas had been detected in ballast tanks and void spaces of
double-hull and double-bottom spaces adjacent to the cargo tanks.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which defined the process and frequency for testing double-hull, double-
bottom and void spaces. for hydrocarbon gas accumulation.
• The accompanying deck officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for monitoring double-hull,
double-bottom and void spaces for hydrocarbon gas accumulation.
• Records, or absence of records, indicated that gas measurements had not been taken and recorded in
accordance with company procedures.
• Records, or absence of records, indicated that fixed gas detector tank sensors had been isolated without
appropriate manual gas measurements being taken in accordance with company procedures.
• The fixed gas detecting system fitted to the vessel was defective in any way.
• The fixed gas detector sensors had not been calibrated and/or the flammable gas alarm had not been set in
accordance with company procedures.
• There was no functioning portable flammable gas detector available to take manual gas readings.
• Flammable gasses had been detected in double-hull, double-bottom or void spaces as a result of a
structural defect within the previous twelve months.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
