## Question 5.7.1

**Paragraph Number:**
5.7.1

---

### **Question**
Had all onboard incidents been reported and investigated in accordance with
company procedures, and was an incident investigation report or a summarised lessons
learned bulletin available for each incident at or above a defined threshold?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Pre-board
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/INTERTANKO: Sharing Lessons Learned from Incidents (first edition 2018)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that seafarers can learn from incidents which occurred onboard their vessel to improve safety and
pollution prevention standards.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the incidents reported through the HVPQ and the PIQ and verify that either an incident investigation
report or a lesson learned bulletin was available onboard for each reported incident where the vessel
operator had declared that the incident investigation had been completed.
• Review the onboard system for recording and tracking incident and near-miss reports and verify that the
incident data provided by the vessel operator through the HVPQ and PIQ included all incident information
requested.
• The inspector is not required or expected to comment on the quality of the incident investigation report or
lessons learned bulletins.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures that required incidents and near-misses were promptly reported and investigated.
• The system for tracking incident and near-miss reports to closure.
• Incident investigation reports or lessons learned for any of the incident types listed in the guidance notes
which had occurred during the 12 months prior to the inspection.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no incident investigation report or lessons learned bulletin available onboard for one or more of
the incidents reported through the HVPQ or PIQ, unless the vessel operator had declared that the incident
investigation was ongoing.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There was evidence that the vessel had been involved in one of the incident types listed in the inspection
guidance during the 12 months prior to the inspection but the incident had not been reported though the
HVPQ and/or the PIQ.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
