## Question 5.7.3

**Paragraph Number:**
5.7.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the company procedure for
holding and documenting shipboard safety meetings and was evidence available that
safety concerns raised at the meetings were acknowledged and addressed by shore
management?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Interview - Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers

---

### **Objective**


---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which defined the requirements for holding
shipboard safety meetings.
• Review the safety meeting minutes held within the previous six months, select one for detailed review and
verify that:
o A routine safety meeting had been held at approximately monthly intervals.
o An extraordinary safety meeting had been held during a shore management visit, where practical,
or within a week of a serious incident onboard.
o The minutes of the meeting were in accordance with the defined company format and included
details of who attended.
o The meeting was not held on the bridge while at sea or at anchor nor in the cargo control room
during cargo or tank cleaning operations.
o The minutes had been submitted for shore management review.
• Review the response from shore management for the selected safety meeting and verify that it addressed
any matters requiring their assistance or intervention.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview one rating to understand whether they attended the most recent safety meeting and, if not, how
they would communicate issues of concern around safety and pollution prevention to the safety committee.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures relating to shipboard safety meetings.
• The safety committee meeting minutes for all meetings conducted during the previous six months.
• The shore management response to all safety committee meetings conducted during the previous six
months except for minutes submitted within one week of the inspection.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures which defined the process for holding shipboard safety meetings,
recording the minutes and shore management review of the minutes of each meeting.
• Shipboard safety meetings had not been held at the frequency defined by the company procedure or at
approximately monthly intervals.
• Extraordinary safety meetings had not been held after a serious incident onboard or during a shore
management visit, where practical.
• The minutes of shipboard safety meetings had not been documented in accordance with the required
company format.
• The minutes of shipboard safety meetings had not been submitted for shore management review.
• Shore management had not acknowledged submitted safety meeting minutes.
• Shore management had failed to address matters included in safety meeting minutes that required their
assistance or intervention.
• There was evidence that a safety meeting had been held on the bridge while at sea or at anchor or in the
cargo control room while conducting cargo or tank cleaning operations.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for conducting and recording the
minutes of shipboard safety meetings.
• An interviewed rating was unfamiliar with the process of contributing to a safety meeting either as an
attendee or in the circumstances that they could not attend a shipboard safety meeting.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
