## Question 5.7.7

**Paragraph Number:**
5.7.7

---

### **Question**
Were Safety Data Sheets (SDS) available on board for all cargo, bunkers,
chemicals, paints and other products being handled, and were crew members familiar
with their use?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Cargo Control Room, Engine Room, Steering Gear, Forecastle
Publications
IMO: Resolution MSC.286(86) Recommendations for material safety data sheets (MSDS) for MARPOL Annex I oil
cargo and oil fuel
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IGC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
IMO: MSC/Circ.1095 Revised minimum safety standards for ships carrying liquids in bulk containing benzene

---

### **Objective**
To ensure crew members are provided with clear, accurate information on the health and environmental
effects of all hazardous and toxic substances carried on board, including guidance on their safe handling.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and where necessary review the company procedures to ensure that up to date Safety Data Sheets
(SDS) are readily available for all hazardous or toxic substances carried on board and to give guidance on
the handling and stowage of these substances, including PPE requirements.
• Sight the SDS(s) for the oil, chemical or gas cargo(es) on board at the time of the inspection.
• During the course of the inspection, inspect those locations where other toxic or hazardous substances are
stored and verify that:
o Appropriate PPE is available at all storage locations.
o SDSs are available locally for all toxic or hazardous substances.
o SDSs contain the required information.
o The stowage of containers and packages is satisfactory.
o Containers and packages are correctly labelled to identify their content.
o Storage locations are suitable, clean and tidy.
• Interview an accompanying officer at any relevant location during the inspection to verify their familiarity with
the purpose and content of the SDSs relevant to products stored in, or handled from, the chosen location.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures to ensure that up to date Safety Data Sheets are readily available for all hazardous or
toxic substances carried on board and to give guidance on the handling and stowage of these substances.
• SDSs for, where carried:
o All oil, chemical and/or gas cargoes.
o All grades of bunkers.
o Hydraulic oils.
o Lubricating oils.
o Paints, protective coatings and thinners.
o All chemicals used or stored onboard.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures to ensure that up to date Safety Data Sheets are readily available for all
hazardous or toxic substances carried on board and to give guidance on the handling and stowage of these
substances, including PPE requirements.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose and content of the relevant SDSs.
• There was no SDS available for a cargo or fuel oil on board at the time of the inspection.
• The (M)SDS for an Annex I cargo or fuel oil on board at the time of the inspection was not in compliance
with the requirements of IMO: Resolution MSC.286(86).
• The (M)SDS for a cargo containing benzene was not in compliance with the requirements of IMO:
Resolution MSC.286(86).
• The (M)SDS for an Annex II or gas cargo on board at the time of the inspection did not include the
information for safe carriage as required by the IBC and IGC code.
• There was no SDS available locally for a toxic or hazardous substance on board at the time of the
inspection.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Appropriate PPE, first aid and eyewash equipment was not available at the storage location of a toxic or
hazardous substance.
• The stowage of containers or packages containing a toxic or hazardous substance was unsatisfactory.
• The storage location of a toxic or hazardous substance was not clean and tidy.
• Incompatible toxic or hazardous substances were stowed together.
• Toxic or hazardous substances were contained in unmarked or incorrectly marked containers.
• Toxic or hazardous substances had been transferred to, and were contained in, unsuitable containers.
• Toxic or hazardous substances were stored in an unsuitable location.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
