## Question 5.7.8

**Paragraph Number:**
5.7.8

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the company Simultaneous
Operations (SIMOPS) procedure and was there evidence that SIMOPS were considered
during work planning and the required controls implemented for the duration of such
operations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Engine Control Room, Interview - Rating, Documentation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the impact of Simultaneous Operations (SIMOPS) is understood and managed effectively.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which provided guidance and instruction on
Simultaneous Operations.
• Review the SIMOPS guidance tools, where provided:
o The decision matrix.
o The matrix of permitted operations.
• Review recent examples where the vessel staff had identified potential SIMOPS and documented the
appropriate controls in documents such as:
o Work planning meeting records.
o Risk assessments.
o SIMOPS plan/interface documents.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their understanding of the company SIMOPS procedure and its
implementation and documentation during shipboard activities.
• Interview a deck or engine rating to understand how they are informed of SIMOPS and what the
expectations are of them in terms of remaining focused on the task to which they have been assigned while
SIMOPS are ongoing.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which provided guidance and instruction on Simultaneous Operations (SIMOPS).
• The SIMOPS decision matrix, if provided as part of the SIMOPS procedure.
• The SIMOPS matrix of permitted operations, if provided as part of the SIMOPS procedure.
• The daily work planning meeting records.
• Risk assessments dealing with SIMOPS for the previous three months.
• SIMOPS plan/interface documents.
• The Bridge Log Book.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which gave guidance and instruction on Simultaneous Operations
(SIMOPS).
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company SIMOPS procedure.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the decision matrix or the matrix of permitted operations,
where these were provided and required to be used for assessing SIMOPS.
• There were no records available to demonstrate that SIMOPS had been considered during the onboard
work planning process.
• Records of SIMOPS controls had not been maintained in accordance with the company SIMOPS procedure
through documents such as:
o Work planning meeting records.
o Risk assessments.
o SIMOPS plan/interface documents.
• There was evidence of SIMOPS taking place that would have required the company SIMOPS work review
and documentation process to be used but no records were available for review.
• There was evidence of SIMOPS taking place which were specifically prohibited by the company SIMOPS
procedure.
• An interviewed rating was unfamiliar with the term SIMOPS and what their responsibilities would be with
regards to their assigned task when SIMOPS were being undertaken.
If there were no records of SIMOPS having taken place during the previous three months, make a comment in the
Process response tool noting the date of the last documented SIMOPS.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
5.8. Area Safety Inspections
