## Question 5.7.2

**Paragraph Number:**
5.7.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the company incident and near-
miss reporting procedure and was evidence available to demonstrate that incidents and
near-misses had been investigated and closed out in accordance with the company
procedure?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Interview - Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MSC-MEPC.7/Circ.7 Guidance on near-miss reporting
IMO: MSC-MEPC.7/Circ.8 Revised guidelines for the operational implementation of the international safety
management (ISM) code by companies
OCIMF/INTERTANKO: Sharing Lessons Learned from Incidents (first edition 2018)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that seafarers can learn from incidents and near-misses onboard their vessel to improve safety
and pollution prevention.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure that required incidents and near-misses were
promptly reported and investigated.
• Review the system for recording and tracking incident and near-miss reports, select two reports and verify
that:
o The details of each incident or near-miss had been recorded in the format required by the company
procedure.
o Each incident or near-miss report had been communicated to shore-based management within the
time frame defined by the company procedure.
o Each incident or near-miss report had been acknowledged by shore-based management.
o Each incident or near-miss had been investigated at the required management level using the
appropriate incident investigation process.
o Where corrective and/or preventative actions had been identified, there was evidence that these
had been implemented.
o Each report had been closed out and the tracking system updated.
o The outcome of each incident or near-miss investigation had been shared with the vessel’s
complement.
• Interview a rating to verify their understanding of the onboard process to report a near-miss.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure that required incidents and near-misses were promptly reported by all ranks and
investigated.
• The system for tracking incident and near-miss reports to closure.
• Shore-based management acknowledgement of incident and near-miss reports.
• Incident and near-miss reports generated by the vessel during the previous three months.
• Incident and near-miss investigation reports where these were a separate document from the initial report.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There was no company procedure that required incidents and near-misses were promptly reported by all
ranks and investigated.
• The Master or accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the process to:
o Track each incident and near-miss through to closure.
o Document onboard incidents and near-misses.
o Report incidents or near-misses to shore-based management.
o Investigate incidents and near-misses assigned to vessel staff.
o Implement and document corrective and preventative actions.
o Communicate the outcome of a completed incident or near-miss investigation to the vessel’s
complement.
• Incident and near-miss reports had not been:
o Reported to shore-based management within the required time frame.
o Acknowledged by shore-based management.
o Investigated at the appropriate level of management either onboard or ashore.
o Closed out with evidence of implementation of corrective and preventative action.
• There was no system to track incident and near-miss reports through to closure.
• An interviewed rating was unfamiliar with the process to report a near-miss.
• There was no evidence that the outcome of completed incident and near-miss investigations had been
communicated to the vessel’s complement.
Where there had been no near-miss reports generated during the previous three months make a comment in the
Process response tool and record the date of the last documented near miss.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
