## Question 5.7.5

**Paragraph Number:**
5.7.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the purpose and implementation
of the company Stop Work Authority policy and procedure?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Anywhere
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that vessel staff are aware of their responsibility and authority to stop unsafe work.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the company Stop Work Authority policy and procedure.
• Randomly question at least three, but not more than five, crewmembers during the inspection about the
company Stop Work Authority procedure to verify their understanding.
• Under no circumstances deliberately commit any act to test whether a crew-member is aware of the
company expectations or will invoke their Stop Work Authority.
• If Stop Work Authority is used during the inspection by a crewmember, immediately stop work and follow the
instructions of the onboard staff relating to the use of Stop Work.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company Stop Work Authority policy and procedure.
• Any onboard work planning tools such as tool-box talks, risk assessments, daily work planning meetings or
safety meetings which highlight the use of Stop Work Authority.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company Stop Work Authority policy and procedure.
• There was no evidence that Stop Work Authority was included and discussed in work planning processes
such as tool-box talks, risk assessments, daily work planning meetings or safety meetings.
• More than one crewmember was unfamiliar with the company Stop Work Authority policy and/or procedure.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
