## Question 5.7.6

**Paragraph Number:**
5.7.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the company procedures for risk
assessment, as appropriate to their duties, and was there evidence of the development
and review of risk assessments in accordance with the procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Interview - Rating, Interview Senior Officer
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IACS: Rec No.127. A Guide to Risk Assessment in Ship Operations
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that new, non-routine or unplanned tasks, not covered by existing procedures, are subject to risk
assessment before work starts, and that risk assessments are reviewed before work starts on other specified
tasks such as enclosed space entry or hot-work.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for developing and / or reviewing a risk
assessment.
• Review two sample risk assessments relating to new, non-routine, unplanned or specified tasks onboard
during the previous three months and verify that they:
o Contained details that were pertinent and relevant to the task that was being risk assessed.
o Referred to equipment and circumstances relevant to the ship and its equipment.
o Had been completed in the format defined by the company procedures.
o Identified appropriate preventative and mitigative measures that must be implemented before
commencement of a task.
o Had been approved at the appropriate management level as defined by the company procedures.
• Interview an appropriate senior officer(s) and verify their familiarity with the risk assessment procedure and
the work described in the selected risk assessments.
• Interview a rating to verify that they had been involved in the review of a risk assessment prior to
commencing work on a new, unplanned or defined task.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure describing the risk assessment development and review processes.
• The risk assessments used onboard during the previous three months.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There was no company procedure describing the risk assessment development and review processes.
• The company risk assessment procedure did not define:
o The circumstances in which a risk assessment must be developed or reviewed.
o The process for developing a risk assessment.
o The process for recording the results of a risk assessment.
o The process for reviewing an available risk assessment.
o Who is responsible for completing a risk assessment.
o Who should be involved in the development of a risk assessment.
o Who is responsible for approving a risk assessment.
o Who is required to review a risk assessment before work starts on a task.
• A reviewed risk assessment was not relevant to the vessel, its circumstances or equipment.
• A reviewed risk assessment was from a generic risk assessment library, but had not been updated to reflect
the vessel, its circumstances or its equipment.
• A risk assessment had not been approved at the appropriate management level as defined by the company
procedure.
• There was evidence that a specified task had been completed without an appropriate risk assessment being
reviewed.
• There was evidence that a new, non-routine or unplanned task that required a risk assessment in
accordance with the company procedure had been completed without an appropriate risk assessment being
developed and approved.
• An interviewed senior officer was unfamiliar with the company risk assessment procedure or any aspect of a
risk assessment completed, reviewed or approved by them.
• An interviewed rating was unfamiliar with:
o The risk assessment review process prior to starting a task requiring a risk assessment.
o The existence or content of a risk assessment for a task that they had been directly involved with.
Where there had been no risk assessments undertaken during the previous three months, make a comment in the
Process response tool and record the date of the last risk assessment that had been developed or reviewed.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
