## Question 5.7.4

**Paragraph Number:**
5.7.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the company work planning
procedures and were records available to demonstrate that onboard work planning
meetings had been conducted and documented in accordance with the procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Interview - Rating, Cargo Control Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all onboard work activities are planned to agree the scope of work and specific safety
requirements applicable to each task, and to avoid operational, departmental or rest hour conflicts.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which defined the requirements for documented
work planning meetings.
• Review several work planning meeting records from the previous month and verify that:
o Work planning meetings had been held at the frequency defined by the company procedure.
o The outcome of the work planning meetings was documented in the format defined by the company
procedure.
o The work planning meeting records had been approved in accordance with the company procedure
o The scope of the planned work reflected the activities of the vessel for the dates reviewed.
o The detail of each task identified was enough to understand:
 What the job entailed.
 Whether permits, risk assessments or detailed work plans were required.
 What PPE was required to be used.
 Whether shore management approval was required.
 Who was responsible for supervising the work.
o Select a task that required either a permit, a risk assessment or a detailed work plan and verify that
the relevant document existed.
• Interview a rating to verify their understanding of the work planning meeting process and where they would
find details of the work planned for the current period.
• Verify that the daily work planning record was available in the location described by the rating.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which defined the requirements for documented work planning meetings.
• The work planning meeting records for the previous month.
• Permits, risk assessments and detailed work plans referenced by work planning meeting records.
• The Bridge Log Book.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which defined the requirements for documented work planning meetings.
• Work planning meetings were not being held at the frequency defined by the company procedure.
• Work planning meeting records had not been approved onboard in accordance with the company
procedures.
• The outcome from work planning meetings was not being recorded in the format defined by the company
procedure.
• The detail included in the work planning meeting records was not enough to understand what a job entailed.
• Work planning meeting tasks required permits, risk assessments or detailed work plans to be used but these
were not available.
• Reviewed work planning records did not reflect the actual activities of the vessel during the period of review.
• Work planning meeting tasks required shore management approval but there was no evidence that approval
had been provided.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company work planning procedure or the documentation
of the outcome of work planning meetings.
• An interviewed rating was unfamiliar with the location or content of the current work planning meeting
record.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
