## Question 5.8.7

**Paragraph Number:**
5.8.7

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedure for safety
inspections of the ballast and/or bunker pumproom, and had inspections been effective
in identifying hazards to health, safety and the environment?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the ballast and/or bunker pump room is always maintained in a safe condition.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which required that safety inspections of the
ballast and/or bunker pumproom were conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to
identify hazards and potential hazards to health, safety and the environment
• Where necessary review the records of safety inspections of the ballast and/or bunker pumproom including
associated checklists.
• Inspect the ballast and/or bunker pumproom with reference to the Safety Officer’s checklist and verify:
o Entry procedures for the pumproom were clearly displayed at the entrance.
o Lights were fully operational with no damage or defects to fittings or covers.
o Ventilation was fully operational with only lower suctions, (if higher suctions are fitted), open.
o The emergency ventilation dampers, (if fitted), were clearly marked and fully operational.
o Pumproom fan(s) were not running noisily or with excessive vibration.
o Bilges were clean and free of combustible material.
o Items stored in the pumproom were properly secured against movement.
o No paint or other flammable material was stored in the pumproom.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Bunker and hydraulic systems were free of oil leaks.
o Ballast systems, including ballast water treatment plant, were free of significant leaks.
o Bunker and ballast piping were free of patches or temporary repairs.
o Bulkhead seals and penetrations were in apparent good order, and, if fitted with oil/grease cups,
these were filled above the minimum level.
o A rescue harness and means of recovery was rigged ready for immediate use.
o All exposed rotating shafts were protected with guards.
o Pipe lagging, where fitted, was clean and free from oil impregnation.
o Safety chains were in place to prevent falling down open vertical ladder accesses.
o Gratings or removable deck plates were in good condition and properly fitted.
o Bunker and ballast pump emergency stop buttons were clearly marked.
o The pumproom telephone, if fitted, was fully operational.
• Select several items from the ballast and/or bunker pumproom inspection checklist and request that the
accompanying officer describe or demonstrate what was required to be checked.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which required that safety inspections of the ballast and/or bunker pumproom were
conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and potential hazards
to health, safety and the environment.
• Records of safety inspections of the ballast and/or bunker pumproom including associated checklists.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which required that safety inspections of the ballast and/or bunker
pumproom be conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and
potential hazards to health, safety and the environment.
• Records of safety inspections of the ballast and/or bunker pumproom were missing or incomplete.
• There was no checklist provided to facilitate the safety inspections of the ballast and/or bunker pumproom.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure which required that safety inspections
of the ballast and/or bunker pumproom were conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety
Officer.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with any of the checks required to be conducted in accordance
with the company ballast and/or bunker pumproom inspection checklist.
• Safety inspections of the ballast and/or bunker pumproom were ineffective as demonstrated by any of the
potential deficiencies listed below:
o Pumproom lighting was not fully operational.
o Pumproom lighting was inadequate to illuminate the space.
o Pumproom light fittings had:
 Cracks in metal casings or covers.
 Cracked or broken glass.
 Failure of cement around glass in flame-proof or explosion-proof enclosures.
 Flame-proof enclosures that were not tight or had missing bolts.
 Gaskets present between mating metal surfaces.
o The pumproom ventilation was not:
 Operating in extraction mode.
 Operating at the correct (lower) suction.
 Operational due to the failure of the single fan fitted. (Give details of alternative temporary
arrangements in place.)
o The pumproom fan(s) was running noisily or with excessive vibration.
o The pumproom bilges were not clean and dry.
o There were leaks from pumps, pipelines, valve glands or instrumentation.
o Bunker or ballast pipelines were temporarily repaired with patches or bandages.
o Bulkhead seals were defective in any respect including grease/oil cups that were
cracked/broken/missing or below the minimum level.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Exposed rotating shafts were not protected with guards.
o Pipe lagging was impregnated with oil or missing from sections of hot piping intended to be lagged.
o Items stored in the pumproom were not properly secured against movement.
o Paint or other flammable material was stored in the pumproom unless contained within an area
specifically designed and designated for such storage.
o The pumproom rescue harness was not fit for use and rigged for immediate operation.
o Safety chains to prevent falling through open vertical ladder accesses were missing or not
connected.
o Bunker and ballast pump emergency stop buttons were not clearly marked.
o The pumproom telephone was defective.
• There was a safety deficiency of any kind in the pumproom.
Where the entry procedures for the pumproom posted at the entrance were not in alignment with the enclosed space
entry procedure contained in the SMS or, ballast and/or bunker pumproom entry was authorised during the inspection
without full compliance with the enclosed space entry procedure, make a negative observation in the Process
response tool of question 5.5.1.
Where a hardware defect was noted as evidence of ineffective safety inspections of the ballast and/or bunker
pumproom, this should be recorded within the Hardware response tool for this question unless identified by a specific
question relating to the hardware included in the CVIQ.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
5.9. Lifting and Rigging
