## Question 5.8.5

**Paragraph Number:**
5.8.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedure for safety
inspections of the forecastle, and had inspections been effective in identifying hazards to
health, safety and the environment?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Forecastle
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the forecastle is always maintained in a safe condition.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which required that safety inspections of the
forecastle were conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and
potential hazards to health, safety and the environment.
• Where necessary review the records of safety inspections of the forecastle, including associated checklists.
• Inspect the forecastle spaces and verify that:
o Weathertight doors to the forecastle space are in satisfactory condition and capable of being
properly secured.
o Forecastle spaces are well illuminated, free of water, and clean and tidy.
o Any stores, spare parts etc. are properly secured against movement.
o No flammable liquids are stored in the forecastle unless it has been specifically designed and
classified.
o Access to bitter end securing arrangements, safety equipment and bilge wells/alarms is clear and
unobstructed.
o Chain lockers are clearly marked as enclosed spaces and the doors securely closed.
o Thruster rooms, transfer pump rooms or other any other interconnected spaces are clearly marked
with the required safe entry controls and requirements.
o Any electrical or hydraulic equipment or other machinery in the forecastle spaces is in satisfactory
condition.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which required that safety inspections of the forecastle were conducted at
appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and potential hazards to health,
safety and the environment.
• Records of safety inspections of the forecastle including associated checklists.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which required that safety inspections of the forecastle were conducted at
appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and potential hazards to health,
safety and the environment.
• Records of safety inspections of the forecastle were missing or incomplete.
• There was no checklist provided to facilitate the safety inspections of the forecastle.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure which required that safety inspections
of the forecastle were conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with any of the checks required to be conducted in accordance
with the company forecastle inspection checklist.
• Safety inspections of the forecastle were ineffective as demonstrated by any of the potential deficiencies
listed below:
o Weathertight doors to the forecastle space were not in satisfactory condition and capable of being
properly secured.
o Forecastle spaces were not well illuminated, free of water, and/or clean and tidy.
o Stores, spare parts etc. were not properly secured against movement.
o Flammable liquids were stored in the forecastle which was not specifically designed and classified.
o Access to bitter end securing arrangements, safety equipment and bilge wells/alarms was not clear
and unobstructed.
o Chain lockers were not clearly marked as enclosed spaces and/or the doors securely closed.
o Thruster rooms, transfer pump rooms or other any other interconnected spaces were not clearly
marked with required safe entry controls and requirements.
o Electrical or hydraulic equipment or other machinery in the forecastle spaces was not in satisfactory
condition.
o Starter panels were not protected from leakage from SW line flanges and/or the watertight entrance
door to the space.
o There was evidence of leakage from the anchor wash SW lines into the space.
Where a hardware defect was noted as evidence of ineffective safety inspections of the forecastle spaces, this should
be documented within the Hardware response tool for this question unless identified by a specific question relating to
the hardware included in the CVIQ.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
