## Question 5.8.3

**Paragraph Number:**
5.8.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedure for safety
inspections of the cargo pumproom, and had inspections been effective in identifying
hazards to health, safety and the environment?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Pumproom
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: MSC.1/Circ. 1321 Guidelines for measures to prevent fires in engine-rooms and cargo pump-rooms.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the cargo pump room is always maintained in a safe condition.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which required that safety inspections of the
cargo pumproom were conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify
hazards and potential hazards to health, safety and the environment
• Where necessary review the records of safety inspections of the cargo pumproom including associated
checklists.
• Inspect the cargo pumproom with reference to the safety officer’s checklist and verify:
o Entry procedures for the pumproom were clearly displayed at the entrance.
o Lights were fully operational with no damage or defects to fittings or covers.
o Ventilation was fully operational with only lower suctions open.
o The emergency ventilation dampers, where fitted, were clearly marked and fully operational.
o Pumproom fans were not running noisily or with excessive vibration.
o Bilges were clean and free of combustible material.
o Items stored in the pumproom were properly secured against movement.
o No paint or other flammable material was stored in the pumproom.
o Cargo and hydraulic systems were free of oil leaks.
o Ballast systems were free of significant leaks.
o Cargo and ballast piping were free of patches or temporary repairs.
o Spray shields or spray protection covers were fitted around the glands of cargo pumps or
detachable connections.
o Bulkhead seals and penetrations were in apparent good order.
o A rescue harness and means of recovery was rigged ready for immediate use.
o All exposed rotating shafts were protected with guards.
o Pipe lagging, where fitted, was clean and free from oil impregnation.
o Safety chains were in place to prevent falling down open vertical ladder accesses.
o Gratings or removable deck plates were in good condition and properly fitted.
o Cargo and ballast pump emergency stop buttons were clearly marked.
o The pumproom telephone was fully operational.
• Select several items from the cargo pumproom inspection checklist and request that the accompanying
officer describe or demonstrate what was required to be checked.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which required that safety inspections of the cargo pumproom were conducted at
appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and potential hazards to health,
safety and the environment.
• Records of safety inspections of the cargo pumproom including associated checklists.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which required that safety inspections of the cargo pumproom be
conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and potential hazards
to health, safety and the environment.
• Records of safety inspections of the cargo pumproom were missing or incomplete.
• There was no checklist provided to facilitate the safety inspections of the cargo pumproom.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure which required that safety inspections
of the cargo pumproom were conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with any of the checks required to be conducted in accordance
with the company cargo pumproom inspection checklist.
• Safety inspections of the cargo pumproom were ineffective as demonstrated by any of the potential
deficiencies listed below:
o Pumproom lighting was not fully operational.
o Pumproom lighting was inadequate to illuminate the space.
o Pumproom light fittings had:
 Cracks in metal casings or covers.
 Cracked or broken glass.
 Failure of cement around glass in flame-proof or explosion-proof enclosures.
 Flame-proof enclosures that were not tight or had missing bolts.
 Gaskets present between mating metal surfaces.
o The pumproom ventilation was not:
 operating in extraction mode.
 interlocked with the pumproom lighting.
 operating at the correct (lower) suction.
o The pumproom fan(s) were running noisily or with excessive vibration.
o The pumproom bilges were not clean and dry.
o Cargo residue had been drained to the pumproom bilge.
o There were leaks from pumps, pipelines, valve glands or instrumentation.
o Cargo or ballast pipelines were temporarily repaired with patches or bandages.
o Spray shields or spray protection covers around the glands of cargo pumps or detachable
connections were missing or damaged.
o Bulkhead seals were defective in any respect.
o Exposed rotating shafts were not protected with guards.
o Pipe lagging was impregnated with oil or missing from sections of hot piping intended to be lagged.
o Items stored in the pumproom were not properly secured against movement.
o Paint or other flammable material was stored in the pumproom unless contained within an area
specifically designed and designated for such storage.
o The pumproom rescue harness was not fit for use and rigged for immediate operation.
o Safety chains to prevent falling through open vertical ladder accesses were missing or not
connected.
o Cargo and ballast pump emergency stop buttons were not clearly marked.
o The pumproom telephone was defective.
• There was a safety deficiency of any kind in the pumproom.
Where the entry procedures for the pumproom posted at the entrance were not in alignment with the enclosed space
entry procedure contained in the SMS, or cargo pumproom entry was authorised during the inspection without full
compliance with the enclosed space entry procedure, make a negative observation under the Process response tool
of question 5.5.1.
Where a hardware defect was noted as evidence of ineffective safety inspections of the cargo pumproom, this should
be recorded within the Hardware response tool for this question unless identified by a specific question relating to the
hardware included in the CVIQ.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
