## Question 5.8.6

**Paragraph Number:**
5.8.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedure for safety
inspections of the accommodation, and had inspections been effective in identifying
hazards to health, safety and the environment?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Internal Accommodation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the accommodation is always maintained in a safe condition.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which required that safety inspections of the
accommodation were conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards
and potential hazards to health, safety and the environment
• Where necessary review the records of safety inspections of the accommodation, including associated
checklists.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Where necessary review the records of testing the refrigerated room alarm.
• Inspect the accommodation spaces, including public spaces, sanitary areas, laundries, food store handling
spaces, refrigerated spaces, galley, pantries and the hospital with reference to the safety officer’s checklist
and verify that:
o Accommodation spaces are well illuminated, clean, tidy, in a hygienic condition and obstruction
free.
o There are no overloaded electrical sockets.
o The condition of electrical equipment is satisfactory.
o Smoking regulations are being observed.
o Laundries are free of accumulations of clothing that could constitute a fire hazard.
o Laundry driers and vents are free of accumulations of lint and fluff that could constitute a fire
hazard.
o Weathertight doors, windows and portholes are in good order and capable of being properly
secured.
o The ship's hospital, where provided, is ready for immediate use and not being used as an additional
cabin or storeroom.
o The refrigerated room alarm is operational and regularly tested.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which required that safety inspections of the accommodation were conducted at
appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and potential hazards to health,
safety and the environment.
• Records of safety inspections of the accommodation including associated checklists.
• Records of regular testing of the refrigerated room alarm.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which required that safety inspections of the accommodation were
conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and potential hazards
to health, safety and the environment.
• Records of safety inspections of the accommodation were missing or incomplete.
• There was no checklist provided to facilitate the safety inspections of the accommodation.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure which required that safety inspections
of the accommodation were conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with any of the checks required to be conducted in accordance
with the company accommodation inspection checklist.
• Safety inspections of the accommodation were ineffective as demonstrated by any of the potential
deficiencies listed below:
o Accommodation spaces were not well illuminated, clean, tidy, in a hygienic condition and/or
obstruction free.
o There were overloaded electrical sockets.
o The condition of electrical equipment was not satisfactory (give details).
o Smoking regulations were not being observed.
o Laundries contained accumulations of clothing that could constitute a fire hazard.
o Laundry driers and/or vents contained accumulations of lint and fluff that could constitute a fire
hazard.
o A weathertight door, window or porthole was not in good order and capable of being properly
secured.
o The ship's hospital was not ready for immediate use but was being used as an additional cabin or
storeroom.
o The refrigerated room alarm was not operational.
o The refrigerated room alarm had not been regularly tested.
Where a hardware defect was noted as evidence of ineffective safety inspections of the accommodation spaces, this
should be documented within the Hardware response tool for this question unless identified by a specific question
relating to the hardware included in the CVIQ.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
