## Question 5.8.4

**Paragraph Number:**
5.8.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the procedure for safety inspections of
the cargo machinery rooms, and had inspections been effective in identifying hazards to
health, safety and the environment?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Compressor Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IGC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that cargo machinery rooms are always maintained in a safe condition.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which required that safety inspections of the
cargo machinery rooms were conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify
hazards and potential hazards to health, safety and the environment.
• Where necessary review the records of safety inspections of the cargo machinery rooms including
associated checklists.
• Where necessary review the records of cargo machinery room air-lock audible and visual alarms and shut-
down systems tests.
• Inspect the cargo machinery rooms with reference to the safety officer’s checklist and verify:
o Entry procedures and ventilation requirements for the cargo machinery rooms are clearly displayed
at the entrance.
o Lights are fully operational with no damage or defects to fittings or covers.
o Ventilation is fully operational.
o Cargo machinery room fans are not running noisily or with excessive vibration.
o Gas sampling heads are correctly set.
o Where applicable, air-locks and associated alarms are in satisfactory condition
o Cargo machinery room electrical fittings are not damaged/modified.
o Where fitted, bulkhead seal lubricator reservoirs contain sufficient oil. (Bulkhead shaft seals on
LNG vessels are normally provided by means of pressurised nitrogen.)
o All exposed rotating shafts are protected with guards.
o No paint or other flammable material is stored in the cargo machinery room.
o Items stored in the cargo machinery room are properly secured against movement and do not
obstruct access.
o Drainage arrangements are satisfactory.
o Compressors are isolated whilst carrying a cargo of Ethylene Oxide or Propylene Oxide.
• Select several items from the cargo machinery room inspection checklist and request that the accompanying
officer describe or demonstrate what was required to be checked.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which required that safety inspections of the cargo machinery rooms be conducted
at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and potential hazards to health,
safety and the environment.
• Records of safety inspections of the cargo machinery rooms including associated checklists.
• Records of regular testing of cargo machinery room air-lock audible and visual alarms and shut-down
systems.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which required that safety inspections of the cargo machinery rooms be
conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and potential hazards
to health, safety and the environment.
• Records of safety inspections of the cargo machinery rooms were missing or incomplete.
• There was no checklist(s) provided to facilitate the safety inspections of the cargo machinery rooms.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure which required that safety inspections
of the cargo machinery rooms were conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with any of the checks required to be conducted in accordance
with the company cargo machinery rooms inspection checklist(s).
• Safety inspections of the cargo machinery rooms were ineffective as demonstrated by any of the potential
deficiencies listed below:
o Entry requirements were not posted at the entrance to the cargo machinery rooms.
o There was no warning notice posted outside the cargo machinery rooms requiring the use of
ventilation prior to entry.
o Cargo machinery room lighting was not fully operational.
o Cargo machinery room lighting was inadequate to illuminate the space.
o Cargo machinery room light fittings had:
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
 Cracks in metal casings or covers.
 Cracked or broken glass.
 Failure of cement around glass in flame-proof or explosion-proof enclosures.
 Flame-proof enclosures that were not tight or had missing bolts.
 Gaskets present between mating metal surfaces.
o The compressor room ventilation system was not maintaining negative relative pressure.
o The motor room ventilation system was not maintaining relative positive pressure.
o The air-lock ventilation system was not maintaining relative positive pressure
o The cargo machinery room fan(s) were running noisily or with excessive vibration.
o There were gas leaks evident in the compressor room.
o Cargo machinery room ventilation inlet or outlet grilles were obstructed.
o The cargo machinery room gas sampling heads and/or ventilation points were incorrectly set for the
cargo being carried.
o The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the location and/or status of the gas sampling heads
in the cargo machinery room.
o Audible and/or visual air lock alarms were not operational.
o There were no records of tests of the air lock alarm and shut down system.
o Airlock door seals were damaged or ineffective.
o Hold back arrangements were fitted to air-lock doors and/or doors were held open.
o Cargo machinery room electrical fittings were found to be damaged/modified.
o A bulkhead seal between the compressor and motor rooms was not gas tight and operating
effectively e.g. a lubricating oil reservoir was low or empty.
o An exposed rotating shaft was not protected with a guard.
o Flammable materials were found stowed in a cargo machinery room.
o Items stored in the cargo machinery room were not properly secured against movement.
o Materials were stowed in a cargo machinery room that obstructed safe unrestricted access to
operate valves or rescue an injured person.
o Arrangements to deal with drainage of the cargo machinery room were blocked/ineffective.
o Compressors were not isolated whilst carrying a cargo of Ethylene Oxide or Propylene Oxide.
Where the entry procedures for the compressor room posted at the entrance were not in alignment with the enclosed
space entry procedure contained in the SMS or, compressor room entry was authorised without full compliance with
the enclosed space entry procedure, make a negative observation under question 5.5.1.
Where a hardware defect was noted as evidence of ineffective safety inspections of the cargo machinery rooms, this
should be documented within the Hardware response tool for this question unless identified by a specific question
relating to the hardware included in the CVIQ.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
