## Question 5.8.2

**Paragraph Number:**
5.8.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedure for safety
inspections of the machinery spaces, and had inspections been effective in identifying
hazards to health, safety and the environment?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Steering Gear, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the machinery spaces are always maintained in a safe condition.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which required that safety inspections of the
machinery spaces were conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify
hazards and potential hazards to health, safety and the environment
• Where necessary review the records of safety inspections of the machinery spaces including associated
checklists.
• Inspect the machinery spaces, including purifier rooms, fuel and lubricating oil handling areas, workshops,
compressor rooms, chemical stores, spare gear stores, electrician’s store/workshop, IG rooms, boiler rooms
and the steering gear compartment with reference to the safety officer’s checklist and verify:
o Suitable metal containers with an integral cover were provided for the storage of cotton waste,
cleaning rags or similar materials after use, and these were emptied frequently.
o Wood, paints, solvents, oil or other flammable materials were not stored in boiler rooms or
machinery spaces including steering gear compartments unless specifically identified areas had
been prepared and approved for storage of such items.
o Suitable eye-protection and PPE was readily available where required, for example for welding,
handling chemicals or operating a lathe or fixed or portable grinding wheel.
o Lagging and insulation on all high temperature surfaces such as steam pipes, exhaust pipes etc.
was in place, in good condition and free from oil.
o Safety notices and signs appropriate to the specific compartments were posted to indicate hazards
and obstructions or control measures to be taken where the hazard or obstruction could not be
removed.
o Pipelines were colour coded or labelled to indicate their contents.
o There were no broken or defective light fittings.
o There were no unprotected open hatchways through which persons may fall or on which they may
trip.
o The guardrails or fencing of any protected open hatchway were in good order.
o Floor plates had not been removed and the opening left unguarded or insufficiently lit.
o Floor plates were secured, level and even.
o Safety guards were in place for all machinery, rotating shafts or equipment, as necessary.
o There were no visible oil leaks from any machinery.
o Purifier rooms and fuel and lubricating oil handling areas were ventilated and clean.
o There was no accumulation of waste oil in the bilges or in save-alls in way of machinery space fuel,
lube and hydraulic oil service, settling and storage tanks.
o Tank tops and bilges were painted a light colour so that leaks may be readily located.
o Engine-room bilges were clear of rubbish or other substances that might prevent the bilges being
readily and easily pumped.
o Spare gear was properly stowed and items of machinery under overhaul were safely secured so
that they do not break loose and cause injury or damage even in the heaviest weather.
o Spare gear, tools and other equipment or material was not left lying around, especially near to
steering gear rams, switchboards or batteries.
o There were no flammable materials left or stored near switchboards.
o Gauge glass closing devices on oil tanks were of a self-closing, fail-safe type and were not
inhibited.
o Self-closing sounding devices to double bottom tanks were in good order and closed with caps
properly fitted.
o No non-approved hold-open methods such as tiebacks, hooks, wedges or other arrangements
were used to hold any fire door open where it was required to be self-closing.
• Select several items from the machinery space inspection checklist and request that the accompanying
officer describes or demonstrates what was required to be checked.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which required that safety inspections of the machinery spaces were conducted at
appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and potential hazards to health,
safety and the environment.
• Records of safety inspections of the machinery spaces including associated checklists.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which required that safety inspections of the machinery spaces were
conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and potential hazards
to health, safety and the environment.
• Records of safety inspections of the machinery spaces were missing or incomplete.
• There was no checklist provided to facilitate the safety inspections of the machinery spaces.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure which required that safety inspections
of the machinery spaces were conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with any of the checks required to be conducted in accordance
with the company machinery spaces inspection checklist.
• Safety inspections of the machinery spaces were ineffective as demonstrated by any of the potential
deficiencies listed below:
o Suitable metal containers with an integral cover were not provided for the storage of cotton waste,
cleaning rags or similar materials after use, and/or these were not emptied frequently.
o Wood, paints, solvents, oil or other flammable materials were stored in boiler rooms or machinery
spaces including steering gear compartments unless specifically identified areas had been
prepared and approved for storage of such items.
o Suitable eye-protection and PPE was not readily available where required, for example for welding,
handling chemicals or operating a lathe or fixed or portable grinding wheel.
o Lagging and insulation on high temperature surfaces such as steam pipes, exhaust pipes etc. was
missing, in poor condition or impregnated with oil.
o Safety notices and signs appropriate to the specific compartments were not posted to indicate
hazards and obstructions or control measures to be taken where the hazard or obstruction could
not be removed.
o Pipelines were not colour coded or labelled to indicate their contents.
o There were broken or defective light fittings in the machinery spaces.
o There were unprotected open hatchways through which persons may fall or on which they may trip.
o The guardrails or fencing of any protected open hatchway were not in good order.
o Floor plates had been removed and the opening left unguarded or insufficiently lit.
o Floor plates were unsecured, uneven, or having gaps, presenting a trip and fall hazard.
o Safety guards were not in place for all machinery, rotating shafts or equipment, as necessary.
o There were visible oil leaks from any machinery.
o Purifier rooms and fuel and lubricating oil handling areas were not ventilated and/or clean.
o There was an accumulation of waste oil in the bilges or in save-alls in way of machinery space fuel,
lube and hydraulic oil service, settling and storage tanks.
o Tank tops and bilges were not painted a light colour so that leaks may be readily located.
o Engine-room bilges contained rubbish or other substances that might prevent the bilges being
readily and easily pumped.
o Spare gear was not properly stowed and/or items of machinery under overhaul were not safely
secured to prevent them breaking loose and causing injury or damage in heavy weather.
o Spare gear, tools and other equipment or material was left lying around, especially near to steering
gear rams, switchboards or batteries.
o Flammable materials were left or stored near switchboards.
o Gauge glass closing devices on oil tanks were not of a self-closing, fail-safe type or were inhibited.
o Self-closing sounding devices to double bottom tanks were not in good order, closed and capped.
o Non-approved hold-open methods such as tiebacks, hooks, wedges or other arrangements were
used to hold any fire door in the machinery spaces open where it was required to be self-closing.
• There was a safety deficiency of any kind in the machinery spaces.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
Where a hardware defect was noted as evidence of ineffective safety inspections of the machinery spaces, this
should be recorded within the Hardware response tool for this question unless identified by a specific question
relating to the hardware included in the CVIQ.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
