## Question 5.8.1

**Paragraph Number:**
5.8.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedure for safety
inspections of the main deck areas, and had inspections been effective in identifying
hazards to health, safety and the environment?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Main Deck, Mooring Decks
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers
OCIMF: Mooring Equipment Guidelines. Fourth Edition 2018 (MEG4)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the main deck areas are always maintained in a safe condition.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which requires that safety inspections of the
main deck are conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and
potential hazards to health, safety and the environment
• Where necessary review the records of safety inspections of the main deck areas, including associated
checklists.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Request that the deck lighting is tested, even if in daylight, to ensure the system is fully operational.
• Inspect the main deck areas and verify that:
o Non-skid coatings or gratings are provided in working areas and on walkways.
o Working areas and/or walkways are clearly marked.
o Trip hazards are clearly marked or highlighted with contrasting paint.
o Light fittings in gas-hazardous areas do not have:
 Cracks in metal casings or covers.
 Cracked or broken glass.
 Failure of cement around glass in flame-proof or explosion-proof enclosures.
 Flame-proof enclosures that were not tight or had missing bolts.
 Gaskets present between mating metal surfaces.
 Paint covering safety features such as relief holes, passages etc.
o Deck wiring and conduit runs were in a satisfactory condition.
o There is no leakage from a cargo, cargo heating, inert gas or hydraulic system on deck.
o All deck lights are operational.
o Deck lighting is adequate to allow:
 Sufficient visibility to permit safe access to all areas of the deck.
 The safe use of mooring equipment.
 The monitoring of the deck area for spills and leakages.
 The monitoring of all deck areas and the adjacent surrounding areas to prevent
unauthorised access.
o Roller fairleads and other items of rotating deck equipment are well maintained and free to rotate.
o Fairleads being used with synthetic lines are not grooved or roughened.
o Mooring and towing fittings are clearly marked with their SWL in tonnes (t) by weld bead outline.
o Weathertight doors to deck houses etc. are in satisfactory condition and capable of being properly
secured.
o Flammable liquids are not stored in a deck house which was not specifically designed and
classified.
o If present, lube oil, other oil drums or spare parts/stores are safely stowed and secured on deck.
o If present, drums stowed on deck were not marked to indicate their content.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which requires that safety inspections of the main deck areas are conducted at
appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and potential hazards to health,
safety and the environment.
• Records of safety inspections of the main deck areas including associated checklists.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which required that safety inspections of the main deck areas were
conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer to identify hazards and potential hazards
to health, safety and the environment.
• Records of safety inspections of the main deck areas were missing or incomplete.
• There was no checklist provided to facilitate the safety inspections of the main deck areas.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure which required that safety inspections
of the main deck areas were conducted at appropriate intervals by the designated Safety Officer.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with any of the checks required to be conducted in accordance
with the company main deck areas inspection checklist.
• Safety inspections of the main deck areas were ineffective as demonstrated by any of the potential
deficiencies listed below:
o Non-skid coatings or gratings were not provided in working areas or on walkways.
o Working areas and/or walkways were not clearly marked.
o Trip hazards were not clearly marked or highlighted with contrasting paint.
o Light fittings in gas-hazardous areas had:
 Cracks in metal casings or covers.
 Cracked or broken glass.
 Failure of cement around glass in flame-proof or explosion-proof enclosures.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
 Flame-proof enclosures that were not tight or had missing bolts.
 Gaskets present between mating metal surfaces.
 Paint covering safety features such as relief holes, passages etc.
o Deck wiring and/or conduit runs were not in a satisfactory condition.
o There was leakage from a cargo, cargo heating, inert gas or hydraulic system on deck.
o A number of deck lights were not operational.
o Deck lighting was not adequate to allow:
 Sufficient visibility to permit safe access to all areas of the deck.
 The safe use of mooring equipment.
 The monitoring of the deck area for spills and leakages.
 The monitoring of all deck areas and the adjacent surrounding areas to prevent
unauthorised access.
o A roller fairlead or other item of rotating deck equipment was not well maintained and free to rotate.
o Fairleads being used with synthetic lines were grooved or roughened.
o A mooring or towing fitting was not clearly marked with its SWL in tonnes (t) by weld bead outline.
o A weathertight door to a deck house was not in a satisfactory condition and capable of being
properly secured.
o Flammable liquids were stored in a deck house which was not specifically designed and classified.
o Lube oil, other oil drums or spare parts/stores were not safely stowed and secured on deck.
o Drums stowed on deck were not marked with their content.
Where a hardware defect was noted as evidence of ineffective safety inspections of the main deck, this should be
documented within the Hardware response tool for this question unless identified by a specific question relating to the
hardware included in the CVIQ.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
