## Question 5.9.1

**Paragraph Number:**
5.9.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the company lifting and rigging
procedures, and was evidence available to demonstrate that each item of lifting and
rigging equipment had been maintained, inspected and tested in accordance with the
procedure?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Engine Room, Main Deck, Interview - Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
UK MCA: Code of Safe Working Practices for Merchant Seafarers
OCIMF: Recommendations for the Tagging/Labelling
Testing and Maintenance
Documentation/Certification for Ships' Lifting Equipment May 2005

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all lifting and rigging equipment has been thoroughly inspected at least annually and is
always fit for purpose when used.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for the management of lifting and rigging
equipment.
• Verify the validity of the certificates for lifting equipment and loose gear required to be inspected and
certified under the vessel’s Classification Society and/or Flag administration rules.
• Review the inventory of lifting and rigging equipment not covered by a Classification Society inspection and
certification process and verify that:
o The inventory listed all items of equipment defined by the company lifting and rigging procedure
and included for each item:
 The normal storage location.
 The date brought into service.
 The SWL.
 The date of the last inspection by a competent person.
o Manufacturer’s certificates or equivalent were available for each item.
o Proof load test certificates were available, where required by the company procedure.
o Inspections had been completed and documented in accordance with the company procedure.
• During the general inspection, inspect a selection of lifting and rigging equipment and verify:
o That each item was marked with a unique identifier, its SWL and an indicator that it had been
inspected in accordance with the company procedure.
o That each item was in apparently satisfactory condition and fit for continued use.
• Interview a rating to verify their understanding of the markings on a selected item of lifting or rigging
equipment and the checks they would undertake before using it during routine work.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for the management of lifting and rigging equipment.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The certificates for each item of lifting equipment covered by a Classification Society programme.
• The records of periodic inspections by a competent person required to be maintained for each item of lifting
equipment and loose gear covered by a Classification Society programme.
• The inventory of lifting and rigging equipment not covered by a Classification Society programme.
• The manufacturer’s certificates for all lifting equipment wire falls and topping lift wires.
• The manufacturer’s test certificates or equivalent for all items of lifting or rigging equipment not covered by a
Classification Society programme.
• The proof load test certificates for items not covered by a Classification Society programme where such
tests were required by the company lifting and rigging procedure.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for the management of lifting and rigging equipment.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for the management of lifting and
rigging equipment.
• Certification for lifting equipment and loose gear covered by a Classification Society programme had not
been maintained in accordance with the Classification Society requirements:
• An item of lifting equipment and loose gear covered by a Classification Society programme was out of
service.
• An item of lifting equipment or loose gear covered by a Classification Society programme was found to be
defective in any respect.
• There was no inventory of lifting and rigging equipment for all equipment that was not covered by a
Classification Society programme.
• The inventory of lifting or rigging equipment had not been maintained in accordance with company rigging
and lifting procedure:
• Manufacturer’s test certificates were not available for each item of rigging equipment and, lifting equipment
fall and topping lift wires.
• Items of rigging equipment or, fall or topping lift wires, had not been removed from service in accordance
with the company retirement criteria.
• Items of lifting or rigging equipment were not marked in accordance with the company lifting and rigging
procedure.
• Items of lifting or rigging equipment had not been periodically inspected by a competent person in
accordance with the company procedure.
• Items of lifting or rigging gear which had not been removed from service were found to be in an apparently
unsatisfactory condition.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the inventory of lifting and rigging equipment.
• An interviewed rating was unfamiliar with the markings required on each item of lifting or rigging equipment
and/or the checks required to be undertaken before using the item during routine work.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
