## Question 5.9.2

**Paragraph Number:**
5.9.2

---

### **Question**
Where the vessel was fitted with a single cargo hose handling crane, was a risk
assessment available which identified the minimum spare parts that must be carried
onboard to ensure continued operation in the event of a single component failure, and
were the identified spare parts available onboard?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Chief Engineer's Office
Publications
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that a hose crane is always available to connect and disconnect cargo hoses.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the risk assessment for the continued operation of a single hose crane.
• Review the inventory of spare hydraulic hoses for the cargo hose handling crane and verify that at least one
spare hose with the same specification and rating was available for each diameter and length of hydraulic
hose fitted to the crane.
• Review the inventory of any other items or spare parts identified by the risk assessment.
• Sight the spare hydraulic hoses and any other spare parts required to be carried by the risk assessment.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The risk assessment for the continued operation of a single hose crane.
• The inventory of spare parts for the hose crane including hydraulic hoses, with details of length, diameter
and hose end fittings.
• The hose crane operations and maintenance manual which included the full list of hydraulic hoses, including
diameter and length, fitted to the hose handling crane.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no risk assessment available which identified the minimum spare parts that must be carried for a
single hose handling crane.
• There was not at least one spare hydraulic hose suitable to replace any hydraulic hose fitted to the hose
handling crane.
• Any other spare parts identified by the risk assessment as being essential for the continued use of the hose
handling crane were not available onboard.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
5.10. Safe Access
