## Question 6.1.5

**Paragraph Number:**
6.1.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and engineer officers familiar with the company procedure for
maintaining the Ozone-depleting Substances Record Book, and did the entries contained
in the Ozone-depleting Substances Record Book accurately record the operations and
emissions required to be documented by MARPOL Annex VI?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Engine Control Room, Chief Engineer's Office
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MARPOL
IMO: MEPC.312(74) Guidelines for the Use of Electronic Record Books under MARPOL

---

### **Objective**
To ensure all operations involving ozone-depleting substances, including any deliberate and non-deliberate
emissions, are recorded in compliance with MARPOL Annex VI.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures that described the requirements for
maintaining the Ozone-depleting Substances Record Book, either in paper or electronic format, in
accordance with MARPOL Annex VI and any Flag Administration guidance.
• Review the list of equipment on board containing ozone-depleting substances included in the Supplement to
the IAPP Certificate, section 2.1.
• Select an item of equipment listed and review the relevant maintenance records.
• Review the Ozone-depleting Substances Record Book and verify that:
o Any equipment recharge, repair or maintenance noted had been correctly recorded in the Ozone-
depleting Substances Record Book.
o The supply of ozone-depleting substances to the ship, or discharge of ozone-depleting substances
to land-based reception facilities, had been recorded in the Ozone-depleting Substances Record
Book, as appropriate.
• Review the entries in the Ozone-depleting Substances Record Book more generally, and verify that:
o Each operation had been entered in the Ozone-depleting Substances Record Book in the correct
chronological sequence.
o Each entry included the information required by the company procedures.
o Each entry was signed by the officer in charge of the operation.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Each page was counter-signed by the Master.
o Where an error or omission had been made verify that the method of correcting or inserting an
updated entry was in accordance with the company procedures.
• Where the vessel is using an electronic record book for recording the entries required in the Ozone-
depleting Substances Record Book, verify that data is being automatically backed up to offline storage and
that there is an appropriate method of data recovery if the system were to fail or not be available from the
ship’s network. Sight the Declaration from flag/class.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures that described the requirements for maintaining the Ozone-depleting Substances
Record Book, either in paper or electronic format, in accordance with MARPOL Annex VI and any Flag
Administration guidance.
• The Ozone-depleting Substances Record Book for the previous six months.
• The maintenance records for the equipment on board containing ozone-depleting substances for the
previous six months.
• A copy of the Supplement to the IAPP Certificate.
• Where an electronic record book is in use, the Declaration from flag/class.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure that described the requirements for maintaining the Ozone-depleting
Substances Record Book, either in paper or electronic format, in accordance with MARPOL Annex VI and
any Flag Administration guidance.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures that described the requirements for
maintaining the Ozone-depleting Substances Record Book, either in paper or electronic format, in
accordance with MARPOL Annex VI and any Flag Administration guidance.
• Where the vessel was using an electronic record book, there were no instructions available for the use of the
electronic record book system.
• Where the vessel was using an electronic record book, there was no Declaration from flag/class authorising
its use.
• There was no facility for automatic backup and recovery of data if the electronic record book system were to
fail or not be available from the ship’s network.
• An item of equipment on board containing ozone-depleting substances was not included in the Supplement
to the International Air Pollution Prevention Certificate (IAPP Certificate), section 2.1.
• The entries in the Ozone-depleting Substances Record Book:
o Were not an accurate record of operations and/or emissions involving ozone-depleting substances.
o Recorded operations that were in violation of MARPOL Annex VI.
o Did not record all operations and/or emissions required by MARPOL Annex VI.
o Were not signed by the officer in charge of each operation.
o Were not verified and signed by the Master upon completion of each page.
o Were not supported by a receipt or certificate for the discharge of ozone-depleting substances to
land-based reception facilities.
o Were corrected in a manner which was not in compliance with the company procedures.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
