## Question 6.1.3

**Paragraph Number:**
6.1.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and engineer officers familiar with the company procedure for
maintaining the Oil Record Book Part I, and did the entries contained in the Oil Record
Book Part I accurately record the machinery space operations required to be
documented by MARPOL Annex I?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room, Chief Engineer's Office, Documentation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MARPOL
INTERTANKO: A Guide for Correct Entries in the Oil Record Book (Part I – Machinery Space Operations). Fourth
Edition.
IMO: MEPC.1/Circ.736/Rev.2 Guidance for the Recording of Operations in the Oil Record Book Part I – Machinery
Space Operations (All Ships)
IMO: MEPC.312(74) Guidelines for the Use of Electronic Record Books under MARPOL

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all machinery space operations are conducted and recorded in compliance with MARPOL
Annex I.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for maintaining the Oil Record Book Part I
(ORB I) in accordance with MARPOL Annex I and any Flag Administration instructions.
• Review the entries in the ORB I for a randomly selected period of approximately 10 uninterrupted days and
verify that:
o The collection and transfer or disposal of oil residues (sludge) were consistent with the weekly
inventory of oil residues retained on board. (Code C)
o The disposal of sludge using the incinerator was consistent with the capacity of the incinerator
when in sludge burning mode. (Code 12.3)
o The disposal of bilge water through the 15 ppm equipment was consistent with the capacity of the
15 ppm equipment. (Code D15.1).
o The voluntary declaration of quantities retained on board in oily bilge water holding tanks (Code I)
was consistent with the disposals made (Code D15.1)
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The capacities of the oil residue tanks corresponded with the capacities listed in the IOPP
supplement.
• Review the entries in ORB I more generally, and verify that:
o Each operation had been entered in the ORB I in the correct chronological sequence.
o Each entry included the information required by the instructions in the ORB I.
o Each entry was signed by the officer in charge of the operation.
o Each page was counter-signed by the Master.
o Where an error or omission had been made verify that the method of correcting or inserting an
updated entry had been made in accordance with the company procedure.
• Where sludge (C12.2) or bilge water (D15.3) had been transferred to a cargo area slop tank verify that there
was a reciprocal entry in Oil Record Book Part II.
• Where sludge (C12.1) or bilge water (D15.2) had been disposed of to a reception facility, verify that a receipt
or certificate detailing the quantity of residues or oily mixture transferred along with the date and time of the
transfer was available with the ORB I.
• Where bunkering of fuel oil (H26.3) had taken place verify that the entries in the ORB I were consistent with
the bunker delivery note (BDN) provided by the bunker supplier
• Where the vessel is using an electronic record book for recording the entries required in the ORB I, verify
that data is being automatically backed up to offline storage and that there is an appropriate method of data
recovery if the system were to fail or not be available from the ship’s network. Sight the Declaration from
flag/class.
The review of ORB I entries should be limited to the previous six months.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for maintaining the Oil Record Book Part I in accordance with MARPOL Annex I
and any Flag Administration instructions.
• Oil Record Book Part I for the previous six months.
• The Engine Room Log Book for the previous six months.
• A copy of the supplement to the IOPP certificate (Form B)
• Where an electronic record book is in use, the Declaration from flag/class.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for maintaining the Oil Record Book Part I in accordance with MARPOL
Annex I and any Flag Administration instructions.
• Where the vessel was using an electronic record book, there were no instructions available for the use of the
electronic record book system.
• Where the vessel was using an electronic record book, there was no Declaration from flag/class authorising
its use.
• There was no facility for automatic backup and recovery of data if the electronic record book system were to
fail or not be available from the ship’s network.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with company procedure for maintaining the Oil Record Book
Part I in accordance with MARPOL Annex I and any Flag Administration instructions.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the entries required to be made in the Oil Record Book Part
I.
• The entries in the Oil Record Book Part I:
o Were not an accurate record of machinery space operations.
o Recorded operations that were in violation of MARPOL Annex I.
o Did not record all machinery space operations required by MARPOL Annex I.
o Were not signed by the officer in charge of each operation.
o Were not verified and signed by the Master upon completion of each page.
o Were not supported by a receipt or certificate when sludge or bilge water was disposed to a
reception facility.
o Were corrected in a manner which was not in compliance with the company procedure.
• The oil filtering equipment, its alarm or automatic stopping device was, or had been, out of service but there
was no entry in the ORB I for when the equipment failed and, if applicable, was returned to service.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Bilge water had been discharged in a Special Area, but the oil filtering equipment was not fitted with an
alarm and an automatic stopping device (IOPP Certificate Supplement 2.2.1) or this equipment was out of
service.
• A pollution incident (accidental or other exceptional discharge) was recorded in the ORB I.
• Where sludge or bilge water had been transferred to a cargo area slop tank there was no reciprocal entry in
Oil Record Book Part II.
• Where sludge or bilge water had been disposed of to a reception facility, there was no receipt or certificate
detailing the quantity of residues or oily mixture transferred, available with the ORB I.
• Where sludge had been incinerated, the volume of sludge disposed of was inconsistent with the capacity of
the incinerator in sludge burning mode.
• Where bilge water had been discharged through the oil filtering equipment, the volume of bilge water
disposed of was inconsistent with the capacity of the oil filtering equipment.
• The disposal of accumulated sludge or bilge water could not be accounted for through the entries provided
in the ORB I
• The capacity of one or more oil residue tanks referred to in an ORB I entry did not correspond with the
capacities listed on the supplement to the IOPP certificate.
If the oil filtering equipment was defective in any respect enter a negative observation in the Hardware response
tool of question 6.6.1.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
