## Question 6.1.1

**Paragraph Number:**
6.1.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedure for maintaining
the Cargo Record Book, and did the entries contained in the Cargo Record Book
accurately record the cargo related operations required to be documented by MARPOL
Annex II?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Chemical, LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Documentation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MARPOL
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: MEPC.312(74) Guidelines for the Use of Electronic Record Books under MARPOL
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all cargo operations are conducted in compliance with the Procedures and Arrangements
Manual and recorded in accordance with MARPOL Annex II.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures that for maintaining the Cargo Record Book
(CRB) in accordance with MARPOL Annex II and any Flag Administration instructions.
• Review the entries in the CRB for a recent series of cargo operations relating to a single cargo and verify
that:
o Each operation had been entered in the CRB in the correct chronological sequence from the time
the cargo was initially loaded until the completion of cargo tank cleaning and disposal of any
generated tank washings.
o Each entry included the information required by the instructions in the CRB.
o Each entry was signed by the officer in charge of the operation.
o Each page was counter-signed by the Master.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Each reference to a named cargo used the correct official name in accordance with the Certificate
of Fitness.
o Where prewash operations had been carried out in accordance with MARPOL requirements, the
CRB entry was endorsed by the local port authority inspector or equivalent.
o Discharge of tank washings was in accordance with the company procedure and MARPOL Annex
II.
o Where wash water had been discharged to a reception facility, a receipt or certificate specifying the
quantity of tank washings transferred, together with the time and date of the transfer, was kept
together with the CRB.
o Where tank washings had been transferred to the sea, the entries in the CRB were consistent with
the vessel’s operations at the time of the operation by comparison with the deck logbook.
o Where an error or omission had been made, the method of correcting or inserting an updated entry
had been made in accordance with the company procedure.
• Where the vessel is using an electronic record book for recording the entries required in the Cargo Record
Book, verify that data is being automatically backed up to offline storage and that there is an appropriate
method of data recovery if the system were to fail or not be available from the ship’s network. Sight the
Declaration from flag/class.
The review of CRB entries should be limited to the previous six months.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for maintaining the Cargo Record Book, either in paper or electronic format, in
accordance with MARPOL Annex II and any Flag Administration instructions.
• Cargo Record Books for the previous six months.
• Cargo records for the previous six months.
• The Bridge Log Book for the previous six months.
• Where an electronic record book is in use, the Declaration from flag/class.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for maintaining the Cargo Record Book in accordance with MARPOL
Annex II and any Flag Administration instructions.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with company procedures for maintaining the CRB in accordance
with MARPOL Annex II and any Flag Administration instructions.
• Where the vessel was using an electronic record book, there were no instructions available for the use of the
electronic record book system.
• Where the vessel was using an electronic record book, there was no Declaration from flag/class authorising
its use.
• There was no facility for automatic backup and recovery of data if the electronic record book system were to
fail or not be available from the ship’s network.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the entries required to be made in the CRB
• The entries in the CRB:
o Were not an accurate record of cargo operations.
o Did not correctly identify cargoes by their correct technical name according to the Certificate of
Fitness.
o Recorded operations that were in violation of MARPOL Annex II.
o Did not record all cargo related operations required to be recorded by MARPOL Annex II.
o Were not signed by the officer in charge of each operation.
o Were not verified and signed by the Master on completion of each page.
o Were not supported by a receipt or certificate when tank washings were disposed to a reception
facility.
• Where a prewash operation had been carried out in accordance with MARPOL Annex II requirements, the
required entry in the CRB had not been endorsed by the local port authority inspector or equivalent.
• Tank washings disposal to the sea had not been made in compliance with MARPOL Annex II.
• A pollution incident (accidental or other exceptional discharge) was recorded in the CRB.
• Where a vessel was an oil/chemical carrier MARPOL Annex I cargo operations had been entered in the
Cargo Record Book rather than the Oil Record Book Part II.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
