## Question 6.1.6

**Paragraph Number:**
6.1.6

---

### **Question**
Were the documents and records required by MARPOL Annex VI Regulation 13 for
the control of NOx and associated emissions in good order?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Chief Engineer's Office, Documentation, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MARPOL
IMO: MEPC.312(74) Guidelines for the Use of Electronic Record Books under MARPOL
IMO: NOx Technical Code (2008)
Technical Code on Control of Emission of Nitrogen Oxides from Marine Diesel Engines
IMO: Resolution MEPC 307(73) 2018 Guidelines for the discharge of exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) bleed-off water

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the documents and records required by MARPOL Annex VI for the control of NOx and associated
emissions are maintained as required.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and where necessary, review, the company procedures for maintaining the documents and records
required by MARPOL Annex VI Regulation 13 and the NOx Technical Code.
• Review the IAPP Certificate.
• Sight the Technical Files for diesel engines listed in paragraph 2.2.1 of the vessel’s International Air
Pollution Prevention (IAPP) Certificate.
• Review the Record Books of Engine Parameters where applicable.
• Review the records of diesel engine Tier and on/off status on entering/leaving an NECA where applicable.
• Review the EGR Record Book where applicable.
• Where the vessel is using an electronic record book for recording the entries required in the Record Books,
verify that data is being automatically backed up to offline storage and that there is an appropriate method of
data recovery if the system were to fail or not be available from the ship’s network. Sight the Declaration
from flag/class.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for maintaining the documents and records required by MARPOL Annex VI Regulation
13 and the NOx Technical Code.
• International Air Pollution Prevention (IAPP) Certificate.
• Technical Files for diesel engines listed in paragraph 2.2.1 of the vessel’s International Air Pollution
Prevention (IAPP) Certificate.
• Record Books of Engine Parameters for those engines required to undergo Engine Parameter Checks at
initial and subsequent surveys.
• Records of diesel engine Tier and on/off status on entering/leaving an NECA where applicable.
• Records of the discharge of solid residues and bleed-off water from the EGR equipment where fitted.
• Where an electronic record book is in use, the Declaration from flag/class.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for maintaining the documents and records required by MARPOL
Annex VI Regulation 13 and the NOx Technical Code.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for maintaining the documents and
records required by MARPOL Annex VI Regulation 13 and the NOx Technical Code.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the NOx abatement system installed on board, or its
operation.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the actions to be taken in the event that a NOx abatement
system fitted suffered a failure that could not be rectified within one hour.
• Technical Files were not available for all diesel engines listed in paragraph 2.2.1 of the vessel’s International
Air Pollution Prevention (IAPP) Certificate.
• Record Books of Engine Parameters were not available for all those engines required to undergo Engine
Parameter Checks at initial and subsequent surveys.
• Record Books of Engine Parameters had not been maintained in accordance with company procedures.
• On a vessel constructed after the applicable date, there were no records of diesel engine Tier and on/off
status on entering/leaving an NECA.
• There was evidence that Tier II engines had been operated in an applicable NECA.
• On a vessel with Exhaust Gas Recirculation equipment, records of the discharge of solid residues and
bleed-off water had not been maintained in accordance with company procedures.
• The accompanying engineer officer was not familiar with the strategy for monitoring the catalyst
condition/degradation in an SCR system installed on board, and/or its implementation and associated
equipment.
• There were no records available, paper or electronic, of continuous or spot-checked NOx levels associated
with an SCR system fitted on board.
• Where the vessel was using an electronic record book, there were no instructions available for the use of the
electronic record book system.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Where the vessel was using an electronic record book, there was no Declaration from flag/class authorising
its use.
• There was no facility for automatic backup and recovery of data if the electronic record book system were to
fail or not be available from the ship’s network.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
6.2. Cargo and Bunker Operations
