## Question 6.1.2

**Paragraph Number:**
6.1.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedure for maintaining
the Oil Record Book Part II, and did the entries contained in the Oil Record Book Part II
accurately record the cargo related operations required to be documented by MARPOL
Annex I?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Documentation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MARPOL
INTERTANKO: A Guide for Correct Entries in the Oil Record Book (Part II – Cargo/Ballast Operations). Second
Edition.
IMO: MEPC.312(74) Guidelines for the Use of Electronic Record Books under MARPOL
IMO: MEPC.1/Circ.872 Unified Interpretations of Regulations 1.23 and 36.2.10 of MARPOL Annex I

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all cargo operations are conducted and recorded in compliance with MARPOL Annex I.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for maintaining the Oil Record Book Part II in
accordance with MARPOL Annex I and any Flag Administration instructions.
• Review the entries in the ORB II for a recent series of cargo operations relating to a single cargo and verify
that:
o Each operation had been entered in the ORB II in the correct chronological sequence from the time
the cargo was initially loaded until the completion of cargo tank cleaning and disposal of any
generated tank washing water.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Each entry included the information required by the instructions in the ORB II.
o Each entry was signed by the officer in charge of the operation.
o Each page was counter-signed by the Master.
o Discharge of tank washings was in accordance with the company procedure and MARPOL Annex
I.
o Where wash water had been discharged to a reception facility, a receipt or certificate specifying the
quantity of tank washings transferred, together with the time and date of the transfer, was kept
together with ORB II.
o Where water from a slop tank had been discharged into the sea, the entries in the ORB II were
consistent with the vessel’s operations at the time of the operation by comparison with the deck
logbook.
o Where an error or omission had been made, the method of correcting or inserting an updated entry
had been made in accordance with the company procedure.
o Where a transfer of bilge water or sludge from the machinery space had taken place that a
corresponding entry was recorded in ORB I.
• Where an error or omission had been made verify that the method of correcting or inserting an updated
entry had been made in accordance with the company procedure.
• Where the vessel is using an electronic record book for recording the entries required in the ORB II, verify
that data is being automatically backed up to offline storage and that there is an appropriate method of data
recovery if the system were to fail or not be available from the ship’s network. Sight the Declaration from
flag/class.
The review of ORB II entries should be limited to the previous six months of records.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for maintaining the Oil Record Book Part II in accordance with MARPOL Annex I
and any Flag Administration instructions.
• Oil Record Book Part II for the previous six months.
• Cargo records for the previous six months.
• The Bridge Log Book for the previous six months.
• Where an electronic record book is in use, the Declaration from flag/class.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for maintaining the Oil Record Book Part II (ORB II) in accordance with
MARPOL Annex I and any Flag Administration instructions.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with company procedure for maintaining the ORB II in
accordance with MARPOL Annex I and any Flag Administration instructions.
• Where the vessel was using an electronic record book, there were no instructions available for the use of the
electronic record book system.
• Where the vessel was using an electronic record book, there was no Declaration from flag/class authorising
its use.
• There was no facility for automatic backup and recovery of data if the electronic record book system were to
fail or not be available from the ship’s network.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the entries required to be made in the ORB II.
• The entries in ORB II:
o Were not an accurate record of cargo operations.
o Recorded operations that were in violation of MARPOL Annex I.
o Did not record all cargo related operations required to be recorded by MARPOL Annex I.
o Were not signed by the officer in charge of each operation.
o Were not verified and signed by the Master on completion of each page.
o Were not supported by a receipt or certificate when wash water was disposed to a reception facility.
o Were corrected in a manner which was not in compliance with the company procedure.
• Discharge of water from the slop tanks into the sea had not been made in compliance with MARPOL Annex
I.
• Ballast water had been loaded into a cargo tank or cargo tanks after the carriage of crude oil, but the cargo
tank(s) had not been crude oil washed.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The oil discharge monitoring equipment was, or had been, out of service but there was no entry in ORB II for
when the equipment was taken out of service and, if applicable, returned to service.
• A pollution incident (accidental or other exceptional discharge) was recorded in the ORB II.
• Where a vessel was an oil/chemical carrier, MARPOL Annex II cargo operations had been entered in the
ORB II rather than the Cargo Record Book.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
