## Question 6.1.4

**Paragraph Number:**
6.1.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for maintaining
the Garbage Record Book in accordance with the Garbage Management Plan, and did the
entries contained in the Garbage Record Book accurately record the garbage
management activities required to be documented by MARPOL Annex V?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Engine Room, Interview - Rating
Publications
IMO: MARPOL
IMO: Guidelines for the Implementation of MARPOL Annex V. 2017 Edition.
IMO: MEPC.1/Circ.834/Rev.1 Consolidated Guidance for Port Reception Facility Providers and Users.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all garbage management activities are conducted and recorded in compliance with MARPOL
Annex V.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for maintaining the Garbage Record Book
(GRB) in accordance with MARPOL Annex V and any Flag Administration instructions.
• Review the entries in the GRB for a selected period of 10 consecutive days which included a port visit and
verify that:
o Special areas.
o Distance from coastline.
o Whether the waste had been comminuted or ground.
o Food wastes had been disposed of overboard in accordance with restrictions based on:
o Each operation had been entered in the GRB in the correct chronological sequence
o Each entry included the information required by the instructions in the GRB.
o Each entry was signed by the officer in charge of the operation.
o Each page was counter-signed by the Master.
o Where an error or omission had been made, the method of correcting or inserting an updated entry
had been made in accordance with the company procedure.
• Where garbage had been disposed of to a reception facility, verify that a receipt or certificate detailing the
quantity of garbage by category transferred along with the date and time of the transfer was available with
the GRB.
• Where an error or omission had been made verify that the method of correcting or inserting an updated
entry had been made in accordance with the company procedure.
• Where the vessel is using an electronic record book for recording the entries required in the Garbage
Record Book, verify that data is being automatically backed up to offline storage and that there is an
appropriate method of data recovery if the system were to fail or not be available from the ship’s
network. Sight the Declaration from flag/class.
• Where necessary review the Garbage Management Plan.
The review of GRB entries should be limited to the previous six months.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Inspect the garbage collection areas, including the incinerator space and verify:
o Garbage was being stored and segregated in a safe and hygienic manner in accordance with the
garbage management plan.
o Dangerous or toxic waste items, such as aerosols and batteries, were being properly collected and
segregated to prevent them from being incinerated or disposed of ashore with general waste.
• Interview a rating to verify their understanding of onboard garbage management including:
o Garbage segregation onboard.
o Disposal of aerosols and batteries.
o Permitted disposals of garbage to the sea.
o Garbage management practices within their operational department.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for developing a Garbage Management Plan and maintaining the Garbage Record
Book (GRB), either in paper or electronic format, in accordance with MARPOL Annex V and any Flag
Administration guidance.
• The Garbage Management Plan.
• Garbage Record Book for the previous six months.
• The Bridge Log Book for the previous six months.
• Where an electronic record book is in use, the Declaration from flag/class.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for maintaining the Garbage Record Book, either in paper or electronic
format, in accordance with MARPOL Annex V and any Flag Administration instructions.
• Where the vessel was using an electronic record book, there were no instructions available for the use of the
electronic record book system.
• Where the vessel was using an electronic record book, there was no Declaration from flag/class authorising
its use.
• There was no facility for automatic backup and recovery of data if the electronic record book system were to
fail or not be available from the ship’s network.
• The was no Garbage Management Plan available onboard.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with company procedure for maintaining the Garbage Record
Book in accordance with MARPOL Annex V and any Flag Administration instructions.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the Garbage Management Plan.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the entries required to be made in the Garbage Record
Book.
• The entries in the Garbage Record Book:
• Where garbage had been disposed of to a reception facility, there was no receipt or certificate detailing the
quantity and categories of garbage disposed of.
• There was no evidence that food waste disposed of overboard through a waste disposal unit (comminuter or
grinder) had been recorded on the GRB.
• Garbage was stored onboard in an unhygienic manner.
• Garbage was not being segregated into the required categories in preparation for final disposal either by
incineration or to a reception facility.
• Dangerous or toxic garbage was found to be mixed with general garbage.
• An interviewed rating was not familiar with the garbage management practices onboard.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
