## Question 6.2.2

**Paragraph Number:**
6.2.2

---

### **Question**
Were cargo system overboard and sea suction valves checked and verified as
closed and secured prior to commencement of cargo transfer, and where provided, were
sea valve-testing arrangements in order and regularly monitored for leakage?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Pumproom, Main Deck
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: Prevention of Oil Spillages through Cargo Pumproom Sea Valves. Second Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure all precautions are taken to prevent cargo spillages through cargo system overboard and sea
suction valves.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review the company procedures to prevent cargo spillages through cargo
system overboard and sea suction valves.
• Review records of:
o Checks that cargo system overboard and sea suction valves are closed and secured prior to
commencement of cargo transfer in the bridge or cargo logbook.
o Checks of cargo system overboard and sea suction valves for leakage.
o Tests of cargo system overboard and sea suction valves for integrity between dry-docks.
• Inspect cargo system overboard valves, cargo system sea valves and testing arrangements where fitted.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures to prevent cargo spillages through cargo system overboard and sea suction valves.
• Records of
o Checks that cargo system overboard and sea suction valves are closed and secured prior to
commencement of cargo transfer in the bridge or cargo logbook.
o Checks of cargo system overboard and sea suction valves for leakage.
o Tests of cargo system overboard and sea suction valves for integrity between dry-docks.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures to prevent cargo spillages through cargo system overboard and sea
suction valves that included detailed guidance on:
o Taking ballast into cargo tanks via sea-valves.
o Line displacement with sea water.
• And precautionary measures including:
o Checking cargo system overboard and sea suction valves are closed and secured prior to
commencement of cargo transfer.
o Checking cargo system overboard and sea suction valves for leakage, where arrangements are
fitted.
o Testing cargo system overboard and sea suction valves for integrity between dry-docks, where
arrangements are fitted.
o The maximum test pressure to which sea valve arrangements should be submitted.
o Recording these checks and tests.
o Posting suitable anti-pollution notices next to cargo system overboard and sea suction valves and
at the pump operating position.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures to prevent cargo spillages through
cargo system overboard and sea suction valves.
• Cargo system overboard valves and/or cargo system sea suction valves had not been fully closed prior to
commencement of cargo transfer.
• Cargo system overboard valves and/or cargo system sea valves had not been secured using a Lock-
out/Tag-out system prior to commencement of cargo transfer.
• Where provided, in-line blanks had not been inserted.
• Where a Lock-out/Tag-out system was not practical as with hydraulic valves, suitable marking to indicate
clearly that the valves were to remain closed had not been used.
• There were no records of cargo system overboard and sea suction valves being checked as closed and
secured prior to commencement of cargo transfer.
• Where arrangements for monitoring and testing cargo system overboard and sea suction valves were fitted:
o There were no records of checking cargo system overboard and sea suction valves for leakage.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The pressure/vacuum gauge indicated that there was leakage past one of the cargo system
overboard and/or sea suction valves.
• There were no records of testing cargo system overboard and sea suction valves for integrity between dry-
docks.
• The leak detecting arrangement for the direct sea suction valves was not fitted with a pressure/vacuum
gauge.
• The pressure/vacuum gauge fitted was damaged/defective.
• The arrangements were not positioned so that both readings and samples could be taken from a point far
enough above the pumproom lower platform level that there was no possibility of human exposure to gas
concentrations which may accumulate below the floor plates.
• Suitable anti-pollution notices were not posted next to overboard valves and/or cargo system sea valves
and/or at the pump operating position.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
