## Question 6.2.3

**Paragraph Number:**
6.2.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for inspections
and pressure tests of the bunker oil (HFO and MDO) pipeline system, and had the tests
been performed and the results suitably recorded?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Main Deck, Chief Engineer's Office
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 33.
USCG: Marine Safety Manual
Vol. II: Materiel Inspection

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the bunker pipeline system is regularly inspected and tested.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary, review the company procedures for the inspection and pressure testing of the
bunker pipeline system.
• Review the records of inspection and testing of the bunker pipeline system.
• Review records of the disposal of the liquid used to test the pipeline system.
• During the inspection, observe the condition of the bunker pipeline system and associated equipment.
• Verify pipelines had been marked with the date and pressure of the last test.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the inspection and pressure testing of the bunker pipeline system.
• Records of inspection and testing of the bunker pipeline system.
• Records of testing the bunker system relief valve, where fitted.
• Records of testing tank level alarms, where fitted.
• Records of the disposal of the liquid used to test the pipeline system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the inspection and pressure testing of the bunker pipeline system
including guidance on the:
o Equipment to be inspected/tested.
o Inspection and test frequency.
o Testing method(s).
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The test pressure.
o Disposal of the liquid used to test the pipeline system.
o Records to be kept.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the inspection and pressure
testing of the bunker pipeline system including the testing method.
• There were no records of inspection and testing of the bunker pipeline system.
• There were no records of the disposal of the liquid used to test the pipeline system.
• There were no records of the testing of the bunker system relief valve, where fitted.
• The bunker pipeline system was not marked with the date of the last test and the test pressure.
• The bunker pipeline system had not been tested:
o To 100% of MAWP within the last 12 months.
o To 150% of MAWP twice in the last 5 years.
o With a suitable liquid but tested with air or inert gas instead.
• A section of pipeline, pressure gauge, valve, remotely operated valve, tank level alarm or emergency
shutdown device that formed part of the bunker pipeline system was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
6.3. Ballast Operations
