## Question 6.2.1

**Paragraph Number:**
6.2.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the arrangements to drain the cargo
pumproom bilges in the event of flooding or accidental leakage, and were these
arrangements in good order?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Pumproom
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MARPOL
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 46.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the cargo pumproom bilge pump could be operated when the pumproom was flooded.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for draining the pumproom bilges.
• Inspect the arrangements for draining the pumproom bilges, including the controls on platforms above the
freeboard deck or the upper deck and verify that:
o Valves required to remain open were correctly set.
o Valves or controls were marked with their purpose.
• Where necessary, review Oil Record Book Part II for records of the disposal of pumproom bilge
accumulations.
• Where necessary, review records of tests of the arrangements for draining the pumproom bilges.
Interview the accompanying officer to verify that they were familiar with the pipeline set up to pump the pumproom
bilges to a slop or cargo tank when the pumproom was flooded.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for draining the pumproom bilges.
• The shipboard emergency response plan for pumproom flooding.
• The Oil Record Book Part II.
• Records of tests of the arrangements for draining the pumproom bilges.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for draining the pumproom bilges.
• There was no shipboard emergency response plan for pumproom flooding.
• The company procedures did not provide guidance on:
o Transferring bilge contents to cargo/slop tanks or other containment tanks without risk of pollution.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Pumping out the pumproom in the event of flooding, including controlling the bilge pump and
suction and discharge valves remotely from the upper deck.
o Periodic testing of the arrangements for draining the pumproom bilges
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for draining the pumproom bilges.
• There was evidence that the disposal of the content of the pumproom bilges or bilge wells had not been
documented within the Oil Record Book part II.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the location and purpose of the remote controls for the bilge
pump and suction and discharge valves.
• There were no means available to operate the bilge pump and suction and discharge valves remotely.
• Valves, including steam delivery and condensate return valves, required to remain in the open position to
permit emergency bilge pumping were shut with no means to open them remotely.
• The means available to operate the bilge pump and suction and discharge valves remotely were defective in
any respect.
• There was no evidence of periodic testing of the arrangements for draining the pumproom bilges.
• The bilge pump was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
