## Question 6.3.1

**Paragraph Number:**
6.3.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the safe
operation of the ballast water management system (BWMS), and was the equipment in
satisfactory condition and used in accordance with the company procedures and
manufacturer’s instructions?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Pumproom, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: Ballast Water Management Convention and BWMS Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that ballast is always handled safely in accordance with company procedures and manufacturer’s
instructions.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and where necessary, review the company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance
of the ballast water management system (BWMS).
• Inspect the BWMS control panel and verify that the system is operational with no apparent faults or alarms.
• Review available self-monitoring data to verify satisfactory operation.
• Inspect the visible parts of the BWMS and verify that it is intact and not modified in any respect.
• Where necessary, review the maintenance and inspection records of the BWMS.
• Where necessary, review the records of the operation of the BWMS.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer and verify their familiarity with:
o Company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance of the BWMS.
o The hazards from the operation of the equipment and the handling and storage of any chemicals
used.
o The actions in the event of the failure of the BWMS.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance of the ballast water management
system (BWMS).
• The operation and safety manual for the BWMS.
• Inspection and maintenance records of the BWMS.
• Records of the operation of the BWMS.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance of the ballast water
management system (BWMS), including guidance on:
o Who is responsible for supervising the use of the BWMS.
o Who is permitted to use the BWMS.
o Identification of hazards to the crew presented by the operation of the BWMS.
o Mitigation measures for hazards presented by the operation of the BWMS.
o Use, handling and storage of any active substances, such as chemicals, used by the system for
disinfection or neutralisation.
o Safe disposal of any by-products of the process.
o The possible effect of water density, water temperature and suspended solids on the operation of
the BWMS.
o Actions in the event of the failure of the BWMS.
o Records to be kept of the operation of the BWMS.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation, inspection and
maintenance of the BWMS, particularly the hazards from the operation of the equipment and the handling
and storage of any chemicals used.
• There were no records of the required inspection and maintenance of the BWMS in the vessel's
maintenance plan.
• There were no records of the operation of the BWMS.
• The BWMS was not fully operational, including pumps, filters and back-flush arrangements.
• BWMS self-monitoring data indicated that the equipment had not operated correctly at the last ballast/de-
ballast operation.
• The BWMS had been modified and/or by-passed.
• The BWMS was defective in any respect.
• There was insufficient stock of the required chemicals for injection.
• Storage and/or handling arrangements for the required chemicals were not satisfactory.
Where the entry procedures for the space containing the BWMS posted at the entrance were not in alignment with
the enclosed space entry procedure contained in the SMS for such a space or, entry into the space containing the
BWMS was authorised during the inspection without full compliance with the enclosed space entry procedure, make
a negative observation in the Process response tool of question 5.5.1.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
6.4. Deck Area Pollution Prevention
