## Question 6.4.1

**Paragraph Number:**
6.4.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the company procedures for the
removal of small quantities of oil or chemical spilled and contained on deck, and was
suitable response equipment available, in satisfactory condition and effectively
deployed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck, Interview - Rating
Publications
IMO: MARPOL
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 33.
IMO: Guidelines for the development of Shipboard Marine Pollution Emergency Plans. 2010 edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure any oil or chemical spills contained on deck are promptly and safely cleaned up.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Sight, and where necessary review, the SOPEP or SMPEP.
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the removal of oil or chemical spilled and
contained on deck.
• Review the inventory of spill clean-up equipment provided on board and the records of periodic inspections.
• During the main deck inspection:
o Review the arrangement, positioning and condition of the spill clean-up equipment.
o Inspect the stored spill clean-up equipment and confirm actual quantities broadly agree with the
inventory.
o Review the means for the rapid disposal of oil or chemical at the aft end of the main deck on both
sides of the vessel.
o Where dump valves were installed at the after end of the main deck verify that:
 The valve operating controls would remain above the surface of an accumulation of spilled
liquid.
 The valve operating controls could be accessed without the need to wade into an
accumulation of spilled liquid.
 The opening of the dump valves would result in the draining of accumulated liquid at any
state of list and trim or vapour pressure within the tank and, if not, the limitations that
applied were clearly posted.
• Where safe to do so, request that at least one portable pump is demonstrated and that it could create and
maintain suction.
• Interview a rating to verify they were familiar with the location, purpose and safe use of the spill clean-up
equipment and PPE provided for dealing with small spills.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The SOPEP or SMPEP
• Company procedures for the removal of oil or chemical spilled and contained on deck.
• The inventory of spill clean-up equipment and records of periodic inspections.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the removal of oil or chemical spilled and contained on deck.
• There was no inventory of spill clean-up equipment on board.
• The records of periodic inspections of the inventory of spill clean-up equipment were missing or incomplete.
• There were no instructions available for the safe use of the spill clean-up equipment, including PPE
requirements.
• Company procedures did not contain:
o A provision that no chemical agent should be used in response to pollution on the sea without
authorization of the appropriate coastal State and that such authorization should also be requested,
when required, for use of containment or recovery equipment.
o Guidance on the proper disposal of removed oil or chemical and clean-up materials.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the:
o Company procedures for the removal of oil or chemical spilled and contained on deck.
o Location, purpose or safe use of the spill clean-up equipment on board, including PPE
requirements.
• Actual quantities of spill clean-up equipment on board were significantly different to the latest inventory.
• There were inadequate quantities of spill clean-up equipment on board.
• Suitable spill clean-up equipment was not available at the manifold.
• There was no adequate means for the rapid disposal of oil or chemical at the aft end of the main deck on
both sides of the vessel.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Where the transfer of spilled oil or chemical to a cargo/slop tank was not an option, there was no alternative
means to collect spills and water from the deck into an enclosed container with a capacity of at least 2 m3.
• Hand scoops, shovels, or buckets provided were not of the non-sparking type.
• Portable pumps were:
o Not bonded(earthed) to the vessel’s structure.
o Not mounted to prevent movement and subsequent damage during operation.
o Not ready for immediate use e.g. no air available.
o Arranged to discharge to a cargo/slop tank via the insertion of the spill pump discharge hose
through a tank opening such as a sighting port.
• For non inerted vessels, the portable pumps were not provided with a connection to a full depth sounding
pipe or other connection which avoided the free fall of liquid in the receiving tank.
• For any reason, it appeared that the dump valves would not be effective in draining spilled oil or chemical
from the deck.
• Where there were restrictions for the use of dump valves, these were not clearly posted at or near the
location of the dump valves.
• Spill clean-up equipment was defective or deficient in any respect.
• There was no permanently fitted spill tank, with suitable means of draining, or a portable drip tray, fitted
under each tanker/terminal manifold connection.
• A plastic or other non-metallic portable drip tray had been placed under a tanker/terminal manifold
connection without bonding.
• An interviewed rating was unfamiliar with the location and use of the oil/chemical spill clean-up material and
PPE provided, including the specific PPE required for the cargoes being carried.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
