## Question 6.4.2

**Paragraph Number:**
6.4.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the disposal
of accumulations of water contaminated with oil and/or marine pollutants in the
forecastle and other internal spaces, and had the procedures been implemented?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Pumproom, Forecastle, Steering Gear
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MEPC.1/Circ.759 Guidelines for a shipboard oily waste pollution prevention plan

---

### **Objective**
To ensure any water contaminated with oil or marine pollutants generated in the forecastle and other internal
spaces is disposed of properly.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures to ensure proper disposal of oily waste or
other marine pollutants accumulating in internal space bilge wells.
• Review the records of the disposal of oily waste or other marine pollutants accumulated in internal space
bilge wells.
• Inspect bilge-wells in the forecastle and other internal spaces and note the arrangements for monitoring and
disposal of the contents and arrangements to prevent unauthorised discharge.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures to ensure proper disposal of oily waste or other marine pollutants accumulated in
internal space bilge wells.
• Records of the disposal of oily waste or other marine pollutants accumulated in internal space bilge wells.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures to ensure proper disposal of oily waste or other marine pollutants
accumulated in internal space bilge wells including:
o Identification of relevant spaces.
o Measures to minimise oily waste generation.
o Monitoring of bilge levels, by inspection or sensor/alarm.
o Arrangements for proper disposal of any oily and/or marine pollutant waste generated.
o Record keeping.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures to ensure proper disposal of oily
waste or other marine pollutants accumulated in internal space bilge wells.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There was evidence that a disposal of oily waste or other marine pollutant had taken place, for example after
a hydraulic leak in the forecastle, but there was no record of how the oily waste or marine pollutant had been
disposed of.
• Arrangements for the proper disposal of oily waste or other marine pollutants accumulated in internal space
bilge wells were inadequate.
• Arrangements to prevent unauthorised discharge of oily waste and/or marine pollutant were inadequate.
• The bilge well of an internal space contained a significant quantity of oily waste or marine pollutant.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
6.5. Machinery Space Pollution Prevention
