## Question 6.5.2

**Paragraph Number:**
6.5.2

---

### **Question**
Were the engineer officers familiar with the company procedure for the safe use of
the incinerator, and was the incinerator in satisfactory condition and used in accordance
with the company procedure and in compliance with MARPOL?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Interview - Engineer Officer
Publications
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MARPOL
IMO: MEPC.244(66) 2014 Standard specification for shipboard incinerators.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the disposal of garbage and sludge using the incinerator is always carried out safely and in
accordance with the requirements of MARPOL.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which described the safe use of the
incinerator.
• Sight, and where necessary review, the risk assessment for the safe operation of the incinerator.
• Inspect the incinerator and the garbage sorting area and verify that:
o The incinerator appeared fully functional and operational.
o Clear and simple operating instructions were posted at the incinerator controls.
o A list of items that were prohibited from being incinerated was posted in the incinerator space.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o There was evidence that prohibited items were being separated and stored for disposal ashore.
o The safety interlocks on the garbage loading chutes were properly connected and functioning. (as
far as possible with the incinerator stopped)
o There was no evidence of localised overheating or leaking of exhaust fumes on the exterior of
either the combustion chambers or the exhaust trunk.
o There was no evidence of oil dripping around the incinerator casing and/or cooling space.
• Interview an engineer officer who was responsible for the supervision of the incinerator to verify their
understanding and knowledge of:
o Who is permitted to use the incinerator for garbage disposal and what level of supervision must be
maintained
o The safe operating procedure for the incinerator.
o The PPE that must be used when loading the incinerator with garbage.
o The correct garbage loading process.
o The safety interlocks that prevent the garbage loading chutes from being opened in the incorrect
sequence or while the furnace is in operation.
o The location of the incinerator emergency stop controls.
o The items that were prohibited from being incinerated.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which described the safe use of the incinerator.
• The risk assessment for the safe operation of the incinerator.
• The incinerator operation and maintenance manual.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which described the safe use of the incinerator.
• There was no risk assessment available for the safe operation of the incinerator.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure or risk assessment for the safe
operation of the incinerator.
• An interviewed engineer officer was unfamiliar with:
o The company procedures or risk assessment for the safe operation of the incinerator.
o The PPE that must be worn when loading garbage into the incinerator.
o The process to safely load garbage into the incinerator.
o The items that were prohibited from being incinerated.
o The actions to take if the incinerator fails or develops a fault.
• The incinerator was out of service or defective in any respect.
• A list of items prohibited from being incinerated was not posted in the incinerator space.
• Operating instructions were not posted by the incinerator controls.
• There was evidence of localised overheating or exhaust gas leakage from the combustion chamber or
exhaust trunk.
• There was evidence that the safety interlocks on the garbage loading chutes were defective or being
bypassed.
• There was evidence of oil dripping around the incinerator casing and/or cooling space.
• There was evidence that prohibited items were being incinerated.
• There was evidence that the incinerator had been used to incinerate garbage or sludge at times or places
where MARPOL, local regulations or company procedure prohibited the use of the incinerator.
• There was evidence that the main or auxiliary power plant of boilers had been used to incinerate sewage
sludge and/or sludge oil at times or places where MARPOL, local regulations or company procedure
prohibited this practice.
• Waste had been allowed to accumulate around incinerator spaces other than in the correct storage facilities.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
6.6. Oil Discharge Monitors
