## Question 6.5.1

**Paragraph Number:**
6.5.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the emergency arrangements to pump
out the machinery space bilges in the event of flooding, and were these arrangements
prominently marked and in good order?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MARPOL
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1424 Unified interpretation of SOLAS regulation II-1/48.3 Controls of emergency bilge suction valve
in periodically unattended machinery spaces

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the machinery space bilges could be pumped out promptly in the event of a flooding
situation.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the use of the emergency bilge pumping
arrangements in the machinery spaces.
• Inspect the emergency bilge pumping arrangements in the machinery spaces, including the associated bilge
direct suction valves, overboard valves and the emergency bilge suction valve and verify that:
o Each suction and/or discharge valve required to be opened and/or closed to permit the emergency
pumping of the engine room bilges was marked.
o Where an emergency bilge suction could be served by multiple pumps there was a clear indication
of which pump should be started to take suction.
o Warning signs to prevent accidental opening of the emergency overboard discharge valve(s) were
posted at appropriate locations.
• Consider reviewing the records of numbered seals in the relevant logbook.
• Interview the accompanying officer or any other available engineer officer to verify their understanding of
how the machinery space bilges would be pumped out in an emergency utilising the various systems
provided onboard. This should include the sequence of opening and closing valves and starting the
appropriate pump based on the scenarios where:
o There had been a failure of the main seawater circulating system pipework.
o There had been flooding from any source other than a failure in the main seawater circulating
system pipework.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure for the use of the emergency bilge pumping arrangements in the machinery
spaces.
• The shipboard emergency response plan for machinery space flooding.
• The Oil Record Book Part I.
• The Engine Room Log Book.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There was no company procedure for the use of the emergency bilge pumping arrangements in the
machinery spaces.
• There was no shipboard emergency response plan for machinery space flooding.
• The company procedures did not include guidance on:
o The use of the various pumps connected to the bilge system, their direct suctions and overboard
valves.
o The use of the emergency bilge suction.
o MARPOL requirements concerning the discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures necessary for
the purpose of securing the safety of the ship or saving life at sea or resulting from damage to a
ship or its equipment.
o Ship specific requirements to seal suction and/or overboard valves, depending on the ship’s
equipment and design, to prevent unauthorised discharge of oil or oily mixtures.
• The accompanying or interviewed engineer officer was unfamiliar with
o The location and purpose of the various pumps connected to the bilge system, their direct suctions
and overboard valves.
o The location and purpose of the emergency bilge suction.
o The sequence of opening and closing valves and starting the appropriate pump to effectively
commence pumping out the bilges in an emergency.
o MARPOL requirements concerning the discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures in an
emergency flooding situation.
o Company requirements to seal suction and/or overboard valves to prevent unauthorised discharge
of oil or oily mixtures.
• The emergency bilge suction valve was not readily accessible.
• The emergency bilge suction valve was not clearly marked as to its purpose.
• The emergency overboard discharge valve(s) were not provided with a notice warning against accidental
opening.
• Emergency bilge suction and/or overboard valves had not been sealed in accordance with company
procedures.
• Seals on emergency bilge suction and/or overboard valves were not easily breakable.
• The condition of the emergency bilge suction and/or overboard valves was unsatisfactory in any respect
which may make the operation of the valve difficult or impossible in an emergency.
• The emergency bilge pumping system or lines were defective in any respect.
• There was evidence that the emergency bilge discharge arrangements had been used for the disposal of
daily machinery space bilge accumulations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
