## Question 6.6.2

**Paragraph Number:**
6.6.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the use of
the oil discharge monitoring and control system, and was the oil discharge monitoring
and control system in satisfactory condition and used in accordance with the company
procedures, manufacturer’s instructions and MARPOL Annex I?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Pumproom, Main Deck, Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: MARPOL
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: Resolution MEPC.108(49). Revised Guidelines and Specifications for Oil Discharge Monitoring and Control
System for Oil Tankers.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that discharges from cargo and ballast spaces are always within the limits permitted by MARPOL
Annex I.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which described the use of the oil discharge
monitoring and control system provided.
• Inspect the oil discharge monitoring and control system control panel and verify that:
o The system is operational with no apparent faults or alarms.
o The recording device was printing the data legibly, or
o it is possible to store and subsequently download the data from memory.
o The sensor input for speed and position is accurate.
o The time and date is synchronised to GMT.
• During the deck inspection inspect the visible parts of the oil discharge monitoring and control system and
verify that it is intact and not modified in any respect.
• Where the vessel had conducted an overboard discharge of oily mixtures during the previous six months,
inspect the recorder print out/memory and verify that a selected discharge had been undertaken with the
system in automatic mode with all sensors providing an automatic input.
• Where a discharge of oily mixtures had taken place with the oil discharge monitoring and control system or
any of its required data feeds in manual mode:
o Inspect the Oil Record Book Part II and verify that an entry had been made to record that the oil
discharge monitoring and control system was defective.
o Request documented confirmation that shore-based management had been advised of the failure
of the system and that approval for continuing the discharge in manual mode had been provided.
o Request evidence that the oil discharge monitoring and control system had been repaired and
demonstrated as fully operational as soon as possible after failure.
• Where the oil discharge monitoring and control system was, or had recently been, defective verify that an
entry had been made in the Oil Record Book Part II to record the time the equipment was taken out of
service and, where applicable, returned to service.
• Where necessary, review the maintenance and inspection records.
• Interview the accompanying officer and verify their familiarity with:
o The test run and calibration function of the oil discharge monitoring and control system.
o The actions to take if the oil discharge monitoring and control system became defective.
o The company procedure for using the oil discharge monitoring and control system in manual mode.
o The actions to take if during overboard discharge the dedicated overboard lookout reported sighting
an excessive discharge of oil or an oil slick astern of the vessel.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which described the use of the oil discharge monitoring and control system
provided.
• The manufacturer’s maintenance and operation manuals for the oil discharge monitoring and control system.
• The maintenance and inspection records for the oil discharge monitoring and control system.
• Print-outs of ODME data or data displayed from memory.
• The Oil Record Book Part II.
• The Bridge Log Book.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which described the use of the oil discharge monitoring and control
system provided.
• The oil discharge monitoring and control system was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The oil discharge monitoring and control system was apparently modified or fitted with connections which
were not part of the original design.
• Maintenance and testing of the oil discharge monitoring and control system had not been conducted in
accordance with the company procedures and the manufacturer's operation and maintenance manual.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure which described the use of the oil
discharge monitoring and control system provided.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with:
o The restrictions on use of the oil discharge monitoring and control system in accordance with the
company procedure and the design of the equipment, if any.
o The actions to take if the oil discharge monitoring and control system was defective.
o The test run and calibration function of the oil discharge monitoring and control system.
• The oil discharge monitoring and control system had been used to discharge oil mixtures overboard while in
manual mode or with any of the data feeds in manual mode, without authorisation from shore based
management.
• The oil discharge monitoring and control system had been used to discharge oil mixtures overboard which
were not compatible with the sensors fitted.
• The printed data from the recording device was illegible.
• The stored data from the recording device was unavailable for review or download.
• Where the oil discharge monitoring and control system was, or had been, out of service but where no entry
had been made in the Oil Record Book part II, make a negative observation under question 6.1.2 in
addition to the observations that will be relevant under this question relating to Hardware, Process and
Human element as appropriate.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
7. Maritime Security
7.1. Ship Routing
