## Question 6.6.1

**Paragraph Number:**
6.6.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and engineer officers familiar with the company procedures for
the use of the oil filtering equipment, and was the oil filtering equipment in satisfactory
condition and used in accordance with the company procedure, manufacturer’s
instructions and MARPOL Annex I?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room, Engine Room, Interview - Engineer Officer
Publications
ICS: Engine Room Procedures Guide. First Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MARPOL
IMO: Polar Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that bilge discharges from machinery spaces are always within the limits permitted by MARPOL
Annex I.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which described the use of the oil filtering
equipment provided.
• Where necessary, review the manufacturer’s instructions for the 15 ppm bilge alarm.
• Sight the calibration certificate for the 15 ppm bilge alarm sensor fitted to the oil filtering equipment.
• Inspect the oil filtering equipment and its associated pipework and verify that:
o The overboard valve was secured and sealed against accidental opening.
o A warning sign had been posted at the overboard valve indicating that opening the valve was
prohibited without the authority of the Chief Engineer or the Master.
o There were no signs or indicators that the flanges and pipe connections on the oil filtering
equipment and associated piping had been tampered with.
o That each flange or connection that could permit inappropriate use of the oil filtering system or its
overboard had been sealed to prevent tampering.
• Where the oil filtering equipment was, or had recently been, defective verify that an entry had been made in
the Oil Record Book Part I to record the time the equipment was taken out of service and, where applicable,
returned to service.
• Request that an engineer officer demonstrates the operation the oil filtering equipment using the mandatory
testing facility (MEPC 107(49) 6.1.1) to verify the proper functioning of:
o The 15 ppm bilge alarm.
o The automatic stopping device.
o The 15 ppm bilge alarm recorder.
• Interview the accompanying engineer officer and verify their familiarity with:
o The restrictions on the use of the oil filtering equipment for overboard discharge of bilge water,
particularly as it related to a vessel without an automatic stopping device.
o The actions to take if the oil filtering equipment became defective.
o The actions to take if any part of the oil filtering equipment or its associated pipework was found to
have been tampered with.
o The actions to take if any piping system in the machinery space was suspected as being used to
illegally dispose of bilge water or sludge overboard.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Where the vessel was exempt from being fitted with an oil filtering device verify that:
o The vessel was trading within the limitations identified by MARPOL Annex I 14.5.1.
o The IOPP Certificate was endorsed appropriately (14.5.3.4).
o There was no evidence that the machinery space piping was being used inappropriately for bilge
water or sludge disposal
o The engineer officers were familiar with the machinery space bilge water and sludge management
procedures.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which described the use of the oil filtering equipment provided.
• The calibration certificate for the 15 ppm bilge alarm fitted to the oil filtering equipment.
• The manufacturer’s maintenance and operation manuals for the oil filtering equipment.
• Records of inspection and maintenance of the oil filtering equipment in the vessel’s maintenance plan.
• The Oil Record Book Part I.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which described the use of the oil filtering equipment provided.
• The 15 ppm bilge alarm sensor had not been calibrated within the previous five years or within the time
frame specified by the manufacturer’s operation and maintenance manual, where this was less than five
years.
• The oil filtering equipment overboard valve was not closed and/or was not secured and sealed to prevent
accidental opening.
• There was no warning sign posted at the overboard valve indicating that the valve was only to be operated
with the authority of the Chief Engineer or the Master.
• There was evidence that the oil filtering equipment or its system pipework had been tampered with.
• The oil filtering equipment or its system pipework flanges and connections were not sealed as per the
manufacturer's or shipowner's approved drawing and/or instructions to prevent tampering.
• The oil filtering equipment was defective in any respect.
• There were no records of inspection and maintenance of the oil filtering equipment in the vessel’s
maintenance plan.
• The accompanying engineer officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure which described the use of
the oil filtering equipment provided.
• An engineer officer was unable to demonstrate the operation and proper functioning of the oil filtering
equipment, automatic stopping device, 15 ppm bilge alarm and/or 15 ppm bilge alarm recorder.
• The accompanying engineer officer was unfamiliar with:
o The restrictions on use of the oil filtering equipment in accordance with the company procedure and
the design of the equipment.
o The actions to take if the oil filtering equipment was defective.
o The actions to take if the oil filtering equipment or its associated pipework was found to have been
tampered with.
o The actions to take if any piping system in the machinery space was suspected as being used to
illegally pump bilge water or sludge overboard.
Where the oil filtering equipment was, or had been, out of service but where no entry had been made in the Oil
Record Book part I, make a negative observation under question 6.1.3 in addition to the observations that may be
relevant under this question relating to Hardware, Process and Human element as appropriate.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
