## Question 7.1.1

**Paragraph Number:**
7.1.1

---

### **Question**
Was security threat and risk assessment an integral part of voyage planning, and
did the passage plan contain security related information for each leg of the voyage?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge
Publications
Industry: Global Counter Piracy Guidance for Companies
Masters and Seafarers
Industry : BMP5 Best Management Practices to Deter Piracy and Enhance Maritime Security in the Red Sea
Gulf of Aden
Indian Ocean and Arabian Sea
Industry: BMP West Africa. Best Management Practices to Deter Piracy and Enhance Maritime Security off the Coast
of West Africa including the Gulf of Guinea. 1st Edition.
ReCAAP: Regional Guide to Counter Piracy & Armed Robbery against Ships in Asia (2021).

---

### **Objective**
To ensure voyage planning always addresses security considerations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight UKHO or equivalent security charts and industry best management practice guidance (BMP)
publications and/or regional guidance.
• Review the passage plan for a recently completed voyage including security related notations on voyage
charts.
• Review the security risk assessment for the same voyage.
• Review if necessary, the records of the same voyage in the Bridge Log Book.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• UKHO or equivalent security charts.
• Industry best management practice guidance (BMP) publications.
• Regional Security Guidance (e.g., ReCAAP Guidance)
• Company passage plan appraisal form checklist for a recently completed voyage.
• Passage plan for the same recently completed voyage.
• Security risk assessment for the same recently completed voyage.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Bridge Log Book.
• Bridge security cards and/or checklists.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The vessel did not have the appropriate security information available such as:
o Relevant security charts.
o Industry best management practice guidance (BMP) publications.
o Regional Security Guidance (e.g., ReCAAP Guidance)
o Company specific guidance.
• No security risk assessment had been performed for a recent voyage.
• Completed voyage security risk assessments did not identify ship protection measures where required.
• No company specific guidance regarding recommended routeing had been provided for a recent voyage
through a high-risk area.
• There was no evidence that the voyage security risk assessment had been reviewed and updated prior to
entering an area which required an increased state of readiness and vigilance, and the passage plan
amended if necessary.
• The passage plan did not contain appropriate security related information for each leg of the voyage.
• Bridge security cards or checklists were not available.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
7.2. Ship Hardening and access control
