## Question 7.2.2

**Paragraph Number:**
7.2.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the company procedures to
control access to the vessel in port and to ensure the safety of visitors, and were these
procedures effectively implemented?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Approaching Vessel, Forecastle, Main Deck, Mooring Decks
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure access to the vessel is controlled at all times, and that all visitors are provided with an overview of
the hazards present and the safety precautions to observe while they are on board.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• When boarding the vessel, observe the security arrangements and induction and familiarisation procedures
for visitors.
• During the course of the inspection, observe the arrangements for regular patrols of the deck to monitor
potential unauthorised access points.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures to control access to the vessel in port, and to ensure the safety of visitors, if available
outside of the Ship Security Plan.
• Visitor Log.
• Visitor Information Card, if provided.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures to control access to the vessel in port and to ensure the safety of
visitors.
• The gangway watchman was unfamiliar with the company procedures to control access to the vessel in port
and to ensure the safety of visitors.
• The Master had not provided the terminal with a list of approved visitors, including Agents, Surveyors,
Loading Masters and the SIRE inspector.
• A continuous gangway watch was not maintained.
• There were no regular patrols of the deck to monitor potential unauthorised access points e.g. hawse pipes,
mooring ropes etc.
• CCTV coverage of the vessel access points was not monitored, where CCTV systems were provided.
• Visitors to the vessel were not required to provide photo identification.
• Visitors were not provided with visitor passes.
• No records were maintained of visitors boarding and leaving the vessel.
• Visitor baggage was not searched in accordance with the company procedures for the appropriate security
level.
• Visitors were not escorted from the gangway to the accommodation.
• There was no notice board at the access point to the vessel displaying the appropriate warnings to visitors,
including the particular risks from toxic or hazardous cargoes being handled and the operations taking place.
• Visitors to the vessel were not provided with an overview of the hazards present and the safety precautions
to observe while they are on board, (which may be via a Visitor Information Card), including:
o Smoking regulations.
o Restrictions on movement around the vessel.
o Restrictions on mobile phones and portable electronic equipment.
o Briefing on the hazards of the cargo and any operations taking place e.g. loading, tank-cleaning or
gas-freeing.
o The use of appropriate PPE while onboard.
o Emergency signals and actions in the case of an emergency.
o Drug and alcohol policy.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
7.3. Communications and Monitoring
