## Question 7.2.1

**Paragraph Number:**
7.2.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for hardening
the vessel when entering areas of increased security risk, and was there a Vessel
Hardening Plan (VHP) available?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Exterior Decks, Main Deck, Interview - Security Officer
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF: Guidelines to Harden Vessels. First Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the vessel can be hardened effectively if scheduled to enter an area of increased security risk.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and where necessary, review the company procedures for hardening the vessel when entering areas
of increased security risk.
• Review:
o Vessel Hardening Plan (VHP).
o Records of implementation of the VHP such as logbooks, work planning records, reports,
photographs etc.
o Inventory of hardening materials.
o Inspection and maintenance records for security equipment such as water cannons, CCTV, infrared
detection cameras, etc.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• During the inspection, inspect the hardening materials currently stored on board.
• If the vessel is hardened in accordance with the VHP at the time of the inspection, verify that LSA and FFA
is accessible and unobstructed.
• Interview the Ship Security Officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for hardening the
vessel when entering areas of increased security risk, particularly the VHP.
Where the VHP was reported to be an integral part of the ship security plan and confidential, the date of the last
review/major changes to the plan should be sighted to verify that a VHP plan existed.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for hardening the vessel.
• Vessel Hardening plan (VHP).
• Inventory of hardening materials.
• Inspection and maintenance records for security equipment such as water cannons, CCTV, infrared
detection cameras, etc.
• Bridge Log Book.
• Work planning records.
• Any other records of hardening being implemented, e.g., reports, photographs.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for hardening the vessel when entering areas of increased security risk.
• The Ship Security Officer was not familiar with the company procedures for hardening the vessel when
entering areas of increased security risk.
• There was no Vessel Hardening Plan (VHP) available.
• The Vessel Hardening Plan was not ship-specific.
• The VHP did not include a list of materials needed to implement the VHP and the required quantities.
• There was no inventory of the hardening materials currently on board.
• There were no records of inspection and maintenance of security equipment such as water cannons, CCTV,
infrared cameras, etc.
• The inventory of hardening materials clearly did not reflect actual quantities on board.
• There was no record of the VHP being properly implemented prior to sailing into or through an area of
increased security risk.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
