## Question 7.3.1

**Paragraph Number:**
7.3.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with regional maritime security reporting
requirements and operation of the ship security alert system (SSAS) and had this
equipment been regularly tested?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Internal Accommodation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: Guide to Maritime Security and the ISPS Code 2012 edition
Industry: Global Counter Piracy Guidance for Companies
Masters and Seafarers
Industry : BMP5 Best Management Practices to Deter Piracy and Enhance Maritime Security in the Red Sea
Gulf of Aden
Indian Ocean and Arabian Sea
Industry: BMP West Africa. Best Management Practices to Deter Piracy and Enhance Maritime Security off the Coast
of West Africa including the Gulf of Guinea. 1st Edition.
ReCAAP: Regional Guide to Counter Piracy & Armed Robbery against Ships in Asia (2021).

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vessel staff have knowledge of regional maritime security reporting and that the SSAS
works.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight the 24-hour contact details for the CSO.
• Verify with the Master or SSO that:
o They were familiar with the company procedures for voluntary security reporting in VRAs.
o SSAS, LRIT and dedicated standalone security communications equipment, if fitted, is in
satisfactory condition, regularly tested and records maintained.
• Verify that participation in operational VRAs had been considered during each passage planning phase,
and;
o Where security reporting to VRAs was required by company procedures, there was evidence that
reports had been made as required, or
o Where security reporting to VRAs was not to be made in accordance with company procedures the
passage plan was annotated with the actions to take, if any, when passing reporting points.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their awareness of the:
•
o Purpose and operation of the SSAS, LRIT and dedicated standalone security communications
equipment, if fitted.
o 24-hour contact details of the CSO.
(Inspectors should not request details of communications equipment or to sight test and maintenance records.)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Contact details of the CSO.
• Records of participation in voluntary security reporting.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the 24-hour contact details of the company security officer
(CSO).
• The 24-hour contact details of the CSO were not posted appropriately.
• The Master and/or SSO were not familiar with the company procedures for voluntary security reporting in
VRAs.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There was no evidence that participation in an operational VRA had been considered during the passage
planning phase.
• Where the company procedure required participation in a VRA, there was no evidence that reporting to a
VRA had been undertaken in accordance with the scheme
• It was reported that there were no records of the regular testing of:
o The SSAS and/or the LRIT.
o Dedicated standalone security communications equipment.
• The accompanying officer was not aware of the purpose and operation of the SSAS, LRIT and/or dedicated
standalone security communications equipment.
• It was reported that an item of security communication equipment was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
7.4. Ship Security Officer
