## Question 7.4.1

**Paragraph Number:**
7.4.1

---

### **Question**
Did the Ship Security Officer (SSO) have a valid Certificate of Proficiency and a full
understanding of their role, and were ship security records of port calls being maintained
as required by SOLAS?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Interview - Security Officer, Interview - Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: Guide to Maritime Security and the ISPS Code 2012 edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the SSO is trained and qualified and required security records are maintained.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and verify the SSO’s Certificate of Proficiency.
• Sight and where necessary review, the sections of the SMS relating to ship security.
• Sight evidence of regular security inspections of the vessel by the SSO.
• Sight the ship security records for the last 10 port calls.
• Interview the SSO to verify their familiarity with their role, responsibilities, and duties.
• Interview a rating to verify their knowledge of vessel specific security procedures.
(Inspectors do not need to review the details of the information maintained in the records but should note whether
records are maintained or not.)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• SSO’s Certificate of Proficiency.
• Sections of the SMS relating to ship security.
• Evidence of regular security inspections of the vessel by the SSO.
• Ship security records as required by SOLAS.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The SMS did not clearly designate who should be SSO.
• The SMS did not contain a description of the role of the SSO, and a list of their duties.
• The SSO did not have a valid Certificate of Proficiency.
• The designated SSO was not a member of the crew.
• The SSO did not have a full understanding of their role, responsibilities, and duties. For example, they were
not familiar with one or more of the following:
o Purpose of the Ship Security Plan (SSP).
o Operation, testing and maintenance of security equipment on board
o Vessel Hardening Plan (VHP).
o Identity, role and contact details of the CSO
o Role of a Port Facility Security Officer (PFSO)
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• An interviewed rating had no knowledge of security procedures or response to security alarms
• There was no evidence of regular security inspections of the vessel by the SSO.
• Ship security records were not being maintained as required by SOLAS.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
7.5. Cyber Security
