## Question 7.5.1

**Paragraph Number:**
7.5.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for cyber
security risk management, and had these procedures been fully implemented?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge, Cargo Control Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MSC-FAL.1/Circ.3 Guidelines on maritime cyber risk management
Industry: The Guidelines on Cyber Security Onboard Ships Version 4
IMO: Resolution MSC.428(98) Maritime cyber risk management in safety management systems

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the vessel has in place effective technical and procedural measures to protect against a cyber
incident and ensure continuity of operations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Interview the officer with responsibility for cyber risk management on board to confirm the existence of
o The company procedures for cyber risk management.
o The inventory/register of sensitive IT/OT systems fitted on board.
o Records of approval for external local or remote access to sensitive IT/OT systems.
o Contact details for technical support from the operator’s IT department or external IT contractors.
o Records of cyber security training.
o Cyber contingency plans in hard copy.
• During the tour of the vessel, inspect equipment to verify physical cyber security measures were in place.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for cyber risk management.
• The inventory/register of sensitive IT/OT systems fitted onboard.
• Records of approval for external local or remote access to sensitive IT/OT systems.
• Cyber contingency plans in hard copy.
• Contact details for technical support from the operator’s IT department or external IT contractors.
• Records of cyber security training.
The inspector should not request to review any of the documents and records above considered to be confidential.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for cyber risk management that:
o Identified the roles and responsibilities of users, key personnel, and management both ashore and
on board.
o Identified the IT and OT systems at risk on board.
o Described technical protection measures to protect against a cyber incident.
o Described procedural protection measures to protect against a cyber incident.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for cyber risk management.
• A space containing sensitive IT or OT control equipment was not securely locked.
• There was no inventory/register of sensitive IT/OT systems fitted on board.
• Physical access to sensitive user equipment (such as exposed USB ports on bridge systems) was not
secured or disabled.
• Company procedures did not designate who on board should have an administrator profile and/or who
should manage user profiles.
• Back-up facilities were not available or not used.
• Officers were not familiar with the back-up arrangements for OT systems critical to navigation and
propulsion.
• There was no evidence of formal approval for a technician observed on board to access sensitive equipment
such as ECDIS etc.
• There was no evidence that portable media observed in use had been checked for malware etc. in a
computer not connected to the ship’s control network.
• It was reported that:
o On-board computers were not protected by anti-virus software.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Anti-virus software had not been regularly updated.
o Application software had not been regularly updated with upgrades and security patches.
o A crew member other than a senior officer had an administrator profile.
o User profiles allowed computer workstations to be used for other than their intended purpose.
o User profiles were not actively managed.
o Generic user profiles and passwords were passed on at crew changes.
• The accompanying officer had not received cyber security training as appropriate to their responsibilities and
duties.
• User names and passwords were posted at workstations.
• It was observed that passwords were not required to access workstations.
• There was no evidence that cyber security awareness was actively promoted on board.
• There were no cyber contingency plans addressing the loss of:
o Function or reliability of navigational equipment e.g., ECDIS.
o Availability or integrity of external data sources such as GNSS.
o Connectivity with the shore including GMDSS communications.
o Control systems for critical systems such as propulsion, steering etc.
• There were no hard copies of cyber contingency plans.
• Contact details were not readily available for technical support from the operator’s IT department or external
IT contractors as appropriate.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library: Part 1 Version 1.0 (January 2022)
Part 
Part 2 – Chapters 8 to 12
Version 1.0
(January 2022)
The Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF)
Vision: A global marine industry that causes no harm to people or the environment.
Mission: To lead the global marine industry in the promotion of safe and environmentally responsible
transportation of crude oil, oil products, petrochemicals and gas and to drive the same values in the
management of related offshore marine operations. We do this by developing best practices in the design,
construction and safe operation of tankers, barges and offshore vessels and their interfaces with terminals
and considering human factors in everything we do.
Contents
8. Cargo and Ballast Systems .................................................................................................... 3
8.1. Oil .................................................................................................................................... 3
8.2. Chemicals .......................................................................................................................20
8.3. Oil and Chemical ............................................................................................................56
8.4. LPG ..............................................................................................................................1 54
8.5. LNG ..............................................................................................................................1 85
8.6. Gas (common to all vessels under IGC Code) ..............................................................2 02
8.7. Shuttle Tanker Cargo Operations .................................................................................2 94
8.8. OBO / Combination Carriers .........................................................................................3 28
8.99. All types ......................................................................................................................3 34
9. Mooring and Anchoring .......................................................................................................3 77
9.1. Mooring Equipment Management .................................................................................3 77
9.2. Emergency Towing Arrangement..................................................................................3 90
9.3. Mooring and Anchoring Procedures ..............................................................................3 92
9.4. Mooring and Anchoring Team Management ................................................................. 397
9.5. STS Operation Management ........................................................................................4 04
9.6. Single Point Mooring.....................................................................................................4 13
9.7. Shuttle Tanker Mooring Systems ..................................................................................4 18
10. Machinery Spaces .............................................................................................................4 22
10.1. Engineering Procedures .............................................................................................4 22
10.2. Machinery Status ........................................................................................................4 37
10.3. Safety Management ....................................................................................................4 56
10.4. Planned Maintenance Systems ..................................................................................4 83
10.5. Conventional Bunkering Management ........................................................................ 489
10.6. LNG Bunkering Management .....................................................................................4 98
10.7. Fire Protection Measures ............................................................................................ 517
11. General Appearance and Condition – Photograph Comparison ........................................ 532
11.1.1 to 11.1.36: All vessels ...............................................................................................5 32
11.1.40 to 11.1.42: Addition for Crude / Product / Chemical / Shuttle / OBO ........................ 542
11.1.50 to 11.1.52: Additional for LPG Pressurised .............................................................5 43
11.1.60 to 11.1.62: Additional for LPG Refrigerated............................................................. 544
11.1.70 to 11.1.72: Additional for LNG Membrane Type ......................................................5 45
11.1.80 to 11.1.82: Additional for LNG Moss Type ..............................................................5 46
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
11.1.90 to 11.1.95: Additional for Specialised Bow Loading Shuttle Tanker ......................... 547
12. Ice Operations ...................................................................................................................5 49
12.1. Ice operations training ................................................................................................5 49
12.2. Sub-zero LSA & FFA procedures ................................................................................5 52
12.3. Sub-zero machinery operation procedures ................................................................. 559
12.4. Sub-zero cargo and ballast operation procedures .......................................................5 65
12.5. Sub-zero deck machinery operation procedures .........................................................5 71
12.6. Ice navigation procedures ...........................................................................................5 75
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
8. Cargo and Ballast Systems
8.1. Oil
