## Question 8.1.3

**Paragraph Number:**
8.1.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the isolation
of individual cargo tanks from the common venting system in accordance with SOLAS,
and were these procedures being followed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure there are no incidences of cargo tank over or under pressurisation as a result of the mishandling
or failure of vapour or inert gas isolating valves.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the isolation of individual cargo tanks from
the common venting system.
• Sight the record or display of the current operational status of the isolating valves.
• During the course of the inspection, inspect the isolating valves and verify their operational status and
condition, including locking arrangements.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the isolation of
individual cargo tanks from the common venting system.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the isolation of individual cargo tanks from the common venting system.
• The record or display of the current operational status of the isolating valves
• Cargo operation logbooks
• Records of checks, tests and maintenance of the isolating valves.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the isolation of individual cargo tanks from the common venting
system which included:
o Maintenance and pre-operational testing of isolating valves.
o Checking the operational status of isolating valves prior to commencing operations.
o Locking arrangements for isolating valves, under the control of the responsible officer.
o Guidance on personnel authorised to operate the isolating valves.
o Provision of clear visual indication of the operational status of the valves or other acceptable means
of isolation.
o A method of recording the current position of the valves/means of isolation at the cargo control
room/position.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the isolation of individual cargo
tanks from the common venting system.
• An isolating valve was incorrectly set.
• The operational status of an isolating valve was not in accordance with the record or display of current
status.
• There was no record or display of the current status of the isolating valves.
• There was no locking arrangement for an isolating valve or valves.
• An isolating valve was not locked in position.
• Locking arrangements for the isolating valves were not under the control of the responsible officer.
• There were no records of maintenance or testing of isolating valves.
• There were no records of pre-operational checks of isolating valves.
• There was no clear visual indication of the operational status of an isolating valve or valves.
• Operation of isolating valves was not restricted to authorised personnel.
• An isolating valve was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
