## Question 8.1.2

**Paragraph Number:**
8.1.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures and
international regulations for the planning, preparation, conduct and documentation of
crude oil washing operations (COW), and was the COW system in satisfactory condition
and used in accordance with the company procedures for each COW operation?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Pumproom, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: MARPOL
IMO: Crude Oil Washing Systems

---

### **Objective**
To ensure crude oil washing operations are always planned, prepared, conducted and documented in
accordance with international regulation and industry best practice.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review the:
o Company procedures for the planning, preparation, conduct and documentation of crude oil
washing.
o COW manual.
o Records and checklists for previous COW operations.
• Where COW operations were planned or underway, review the:
o COW plan for the current operation.
o Completed COW checklists.
o Ship Shore Safety Check Lists (SSSCL).
o Records of the current COW operation.
o Bridge and/or Cargo Log Book
• Inspect the crude oil washing system including the:
o Remote and local pressure gauges for the tank cleaning line.
o Tank cleaning line, including expansion joints and hydrant connections.
o Tank cleaning machines.
o Tank washing water heater, if fitted outside the engine room.
• Where COW operations were planned or underway, interview the person in charge of crude oil washing
operations to verify their familiarity with company procedures for the planning, preparation, conduct and
documentation of COW operations.
• Where no COW operations were planned or underway, interview the accompanying officer to verify their
familiarity with company procedures for the planning, preparation, conduct and documentation of COW
operations.
Where the vessel was not undertaking COW operations at the port of inspection, the inspector should:
• Review the records from the most recent COW operation.
• Conduct the interview(s) based on the potential for an upcoming COW operation.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the planning, preparation, conduct and documentation of crude oil washing.
• The COW manual.
• The records and checklists for the current and previous COW operations.
• Ship Shore Safety Check Lists (SSSCL).
• The COW plan for the current operation.
• The Bridge and/or Cargo Log Book.
• The Oil Record Book Part II

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the planning, preparation, conduct and documentation of crude oil
washing which included the:
o Roles, responsibilities and qualifications of those involved in COW operations.
o Requirement for crude oil washing of cargo tanks for:
 Sludge control purposes.
 Preparation for the carriage of ballast in a cargo tank or tanks.
o Suitability of crude oils for crude oil washing.
o Use of dry crude oil for washing.
o Inspection and testing of COW equipment.
o Planning of COW operations.
o Testing of cargo tank oxygen content prior to COW.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Completion of COW checklists.
o Maintaining records of COW operations.
• The person in charge of crude oil washing operations at the time of inspection was not familiar with the
company procedures for the planning, preparation, conduct and documentation of crude oil washing or the
contents of the COW manual.
• The person in charge of crude oil washing operations at the time of inspection was not suitably qualified in
accordance with company procedures.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the planning, preparation,
conduct and documentation of crude oil washing or the contents of the COW manual.
• The vessel did not have an approved COW manual.
• Alterations had been made to the COW system, but the COW Manual had not been updated to reflect these
changes.
• The oxygen content of a tank being crude oil washed was more than 8% by volume.
• The oxygen content of each cargo tank being crude oil washed had not been tested with portable equipment
within 30 minutes prior to commencement of COW and the result recorded in the appropriate COW records.
• Records had not been maintained of all COW operations.
• Cargo tanks had not been crude oil washed at the required frequency for sludge control purposes.
• The crude oil washing cycles and washing durations used for COW operations were not in accordance with
the instructions in the COW manual.
• One or more of the operational checklists in the COW manual had not been completed as required.
• There was no evidence that, prior to arrival in port, the tank washing system had been pressure tested to
normal working pressure, examined for leaks and any leaks rectified.
• There was a leak from the COW pipeline system during operation.
• A pressure gauge(s) on the tank cleaning line was missing, defective or inaccurate.
• The pressure in the tank cleaning line was not as required by the COW manual.
• COW machines were turning in tanks not being crude oil washed, indicating leaking valves to fixed tank
cleaning machines.
• A cargo tank(s) had not been de-bottomed by at least one metre prior to being used as a source of crude oil
for washing.
• A slop tank had not been completely discharged ashore prior to being used as a source of crude oil for
washing. (A slop tank may be considered as a cargo tank if it had not contained slops since the previous
occasion when it had been loaded with crude oil.)
• The tank washing water heater had not been blanked off before crude oil washing.
• Hydrants fitted to the crude oil washing line were not fitted with blanks or caps.
• There was significant corrosion, pitting, soft patches and/or other temporary repairs on the pipework or
components of the COW system.
• The crude oil washing system was defective in any respect.
Where the vessel had not conducted or was not planning to conduct COW operations during the inspection the
question should be addressed based on the records from the previous COW operation.
Where no COW operations had taken place during the previous six months, a comment should be made in the
process drop down indicating the last time COW operations were recorded as having taken place.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
