## Question 8.1.1

**Paragraph Number:**
8.1.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the use of
the inert gas system, and had the inert gas system been used in accordance with ISGOTT
guidance, with cargo tanks maintained in an inert condition at all times, except when it
was necessary to be gas-free for entry?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
OCIMF: Inert Gas Systems. The use of inert gas for the carriage of flammable oil cargoes

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the inert gas system is used in accordance with ISGOTT guidance, and cargo tanks are always
maintained in an inert condition, except when it is necessary to be gas-free for entry.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation of the inert gas system.
• Verify the oxygen content of inert gas being supplied to the cargo tanks was not more than 5% by volume.
• Verify that the inert gas pressure in the cargo tanks/inert gas main had been maintained within the range of
values identified within the cargo and ballast transfer plan throughout the discharge operation.
• Where permitted, request the accompanying officer to measure the oxygen content in a randomly chosen
cargo tank to verify that the oxygen content was less than 8% by volume.
• Review a sample of records for cargo, tank cleaning or gas-freeing operations from the previous three
months and verify that the inert gas system had been used in accordance with the company procedures
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the procedures for the operation of the
vessel’s inert gas system which included:
o Inerting empty cargo tanks.
o Operation during discharge, de-ballasting, COW and tank cleaning.
o Purging tanks before gas freeing.
o Topping up the pressure in the cargo tanks when necessary during other stages of the voyage.
o Actions to be taken in the event of a failure of the inert gas system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation of the vessel’s inert gas system.
• The detailed instruction manuals for the inert gas system.
• Cargo and inert gas records for the previous three months or three voyages whichever was greater.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation of the vessel’s inert gas system which included:
o Inerting empty cargo tanks.
o Operation during discharge, de-ballasting, COW and tank cleaning.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Purging tanks before gas freeing.
o Topping up the pressure in the cargo tanks when necessary during other stages of the voyage.
o Actions to be taken in the event of a failure of the inert gas system.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation of the vessel’s
inert gas system.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the actions to be taken in the event of a failure of the inert
gas system.
• The inert gas system was not in use at the time of the inspection, although its use was required by company
procedures and/or ISGOTT guidance.
• Inerted cargo tanks were not being maintained at positive pressure of at least 100mm Water Gauge (WG).
• The inert gas pressure in the cargo tanks/inert gas main had not been maintained within the range of values
identified within the cargo and ballast transfer plan throughout the discharge operation.
• Inert gas was being delivered to the cargo tanks with an oxygen content in the IG main of more than 5% by
volume.
• The oxygen content of a randomly sampled cargo tank was more than 8% by volume.
• Periodic checks had not been performed on the oxygen content of cargo tanks.
• Sampling of cargo, tank cleaning and gas freeing records showed that the inert gas system had not been
used in accordance with company procedures and/or ISGOTT guidance.
• Records of the operation of the inert gas system were missing or incomplete.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
