## Question 8.1.4

**Paragraph Number:**
8.1.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and deck officers familiar with the company procedures for
planning and documenting cargo tank cleaning operations after the carriage of volatile
products, and had these procedures been followed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
EI: HM50 Guidelines for the cleaning of tanks and lines for marine tank vessels carrying petroleum and refined
products 5th edition
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that tank cleaning and gas freeing operations after the carriage of volatile products are always
carefully planned, conducted and documented.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for planning and documenting cargo tank
cleaning operations after the carriage of volatile products.
• Review available tank cleaning plans, risk assessments, log books and records to verify compliance with
company procedures.
• Interview the officer responsible for tank cleaning operations to verify their familiarity with company
procedures for planning and documenting cargo tank cleaning after the carriage of volatile products.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for planning and documenting cargo tank cleaning and gas freeing operations after
the carriage of volatile products.
• Completed plans, risk assessments, log books and records for previous tank cleaning operations.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for planning and documenting cargo tank cleaning operations after the
carriage of volatile products that addressed:
o Tank washing and gas freeing plans.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Record keeping requirements.
o Risk assessment.
o Supervision.
o Preparation.
o The required atmosphere for tank washing.
o Special tank cleaning procedures including, where applicable:
 Using chemicals in wash water.
 Using chemicals for local cleaning.
 Steaming.
o Purging and gas freeing.
• The officer responsible for tank cleaning operations was not familiar with the company procedures for
planning and documenting cargo tank cleaning operations after the carriage of volatile products.
• Tank washing and gas freeing plans and supporting records were not available for recent tank cleaning
operations.
• Records and interviews indicated that:
o Tank cleaning operations had not been carefully planned.
o A tank cleaning plan had not been followed.
o Tank cleaning, including after discharge of a slop tank, had been conducted without the use of inert
gas.
o The potential hazards of planned tank washing operations had not been systematically identified
and risk assessed, including the risks from any tank cleaning additives used.
o Appropriate preventative measures had not been put in place to reduce the identified risks to
ALARP.
o Tank cleaning operations had not been documented in accordance with company procedures.
o Tank cleaning operations had not been supervised by a Responsible Officer.
o Officers and ratings involved in tank washing operations had not been briefed by the Responsible
Officer on their roles and responsibilities.
o Steam had been introduced into a tank that may have had a flammable atmosphere.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
8.2. Chemicals
