## Question 8.2.4

**Paragraph Number:**
8.2.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and deck officers familiar with the company procedures for
planning and documenting cargo tank cleaning operations after the carriage of volatile
and/or toxic products, and had these procedures been followed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that tank cleaning and gas freeing operations after the carriage of volatile and/or toxic products
are always carefully planned, conducted and documented.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for planning and documenting cargo tank
cleaning operations after the carriage of volatile and/or toxic products.
• Review available tank cleaning plans, risk assessments, log books and records to verify compliance with
company procedures.
• Observe any tank cleaning operations taking place during the course of the inspection, including the
performance of mandatory prewash requirements in accordance with MARPOL Annex II.
• Interview the officer responsible for tank cleaning operations to verify their familiarity with company
procedures for planning and documenting cargo tank cleaning after the carriage of volatile and/or toxic
products.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Company procedures for planning and documenting cargo tank cleaning operations after the carriage of
volatile and/or toxic products.
• P&A Manual
• Completed written tank cleaning plans, risk assessments, log books and records for previous tank cleaning
operations.
• Tank cleaning guidelines for all expected cargoes.
• Manufacturers tank coating guidelines.
• Cargo Record Book.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for planning and documenting cargo tank cleaning operations after the
carriage of volatile and/or toxic products that addressed:
o Tank cleaning guidelines for all expected cargoes.
o Written tank washing and gas freeing plans.
o Risk assessment.
o Tank washing procedures and arrangements.
o The required atmosphere for tank washing.
o Manufacturer’s coating guidelines.
o Special tank cleaning procedures including, where applicable:
 The use of washing media other than water.
 Recirculation washing.
 Using chemical additives in wash water.
 Using chemical solvents or other agents for local cleaning.
o Gas freeing.
• The officer responsible for tank cleaning operations was not familiar with the company procedures for
planning and documenting cargo tank cleaning operations after the carriage of volatile and/or toxic products
including:
o The relevant sections of the P&A Manual.
o Tank cleaning guidelines for all expected cargoes.
o Manufacturers' tank coating guidelines.
• Tank cleaning guidelines for all expected cargoes were not available on board.
• Manufacturers' tank coating guidelines were not available on board.
• The latest version of MEPC.2/Circular listing approved tank cleaning agents was not available on board.
• Records of written tank washing and gas freeing plans were not available for recent tank cleaning
operations.
• Written tank cleaning plans did not include:
o The type of cargo to be cleaned from each tank, and its characteristics. SDS should be available so
that personnel involved are familiar with the hazards.
o The major risks during cleaning including toxicity, flammability, corrosiveness, reactivity, and
temperature as well as the safety precautions to be taken.
o The safety equipment and PPE to be available and ready for use throughout the operation and
during connecting and disconnecting of hoses at the cargo manifold.
o The tanks to be cleaned, cleaning method, cleaning sequence and gas freeing arrangements.
o Monitoring the pumping of tank washings to ensure correct discharge/transfer.
o MARPOL requirements for the disposal of cargo residues and cleaning water (slops).
o Segregation of slops to avoid mixing different categories of product, and
o Necessary actions required to keep the cargo deck area free from cargo vapours during tank
washing and gas freeing operations.
• Records and interviews indicated that:
o Tank cleaning plans had not been developed in accordance with the procedures and/or the P & A
Manual.
o Tank cleaning operations had not been documented in accordance with company procedures.
o Tank cleaning operations had not been conducted in accordance with the tank cleaning plan.
o Tank cleaning operations had not been supervised by a responsible officer.
o Officers and ratings involved in tank washing operations had not been briefed by the responsible
officer on their roles and responsibilities.
o When washing with portable machines, the tank atmosphere had not been treated as non-inert.
o Steam had been introduced into a tank that may have had a flammable atmosphere.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Tank cleaning plans did not address the risks from tank cleaning additives used.
• Cleaning additives that were not cargo were not stored according to the requirements of the IMDG Code.
• Tank cleaning operations were taking place that were not in accordance with the written tank cleaning plan.
• Tank cleaning operations were taking place that were not in accordance with company procedures and/or
the P&A Manual.
• A washing medium other than water had been used to wash a tank, such as mineral oil or chlorinated
solvent, but tank washing procedures involving the use of such a medium were not available in the P&A
Manual.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
