## Question 8.2.1

**Paragraph Number:**
8.2.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
operation of the inert gas system, and had the inert gas system been used in accordance
with these procedures, industry guidance, and SOLAS and IBC regulations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IBC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1501 Unified interpretation of SOLAS regulation II-2/16.3.3 for products requiring oxygen-
dependent inhibitors

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the inert gas system is always used in accordance with

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation of the inert gas system.
• Verify the oxygen content of inert gas being supplied to the cargo tank(s) is not more than 5% by volume.
• Verify that the inert gas pressure in the cargo tanks/inert gas main had been maintained at the value
identified within the cargo and ballast transfer plan throughout the discharge operation.
• Where permitted, request the accompanying officer to measure the oxygen content in a randomly chosen
inerted cargo tank to verify that the oxygen content was less than 8% by volume.
• Review a sample of records for cargo, tank cleaning and gas freeing operations from the previous three
months and verify that the inert gas system has been used in accordance with the company procedures.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the procedures for the operation of the
vessel’s inert gas system which included:
o How to identify when the inert gas system must be used with each potential cargo and operation.
o Inerting empty cargo tanks.
o Inerting tanks before commencement of unloading.
o Operation during discharge and tank cleaning.
o Purging tanks before gas freeing.
o Topping up the pressure in the cargo tanks when necessary during other stages of the voyage.
o Actions to be taken in the event of a failure of the inert gas system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The company procedures for the operation of the vessel’s inert gas system.
• The detailed instruction manuals for the inert gas system.
• Cargo and inert gas records for the previous three months or three voyages whichever was greater.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation of the vessel’s inert gas system which included:
o Inerting empty cargo tanks.
o Inerting tanks before commencement of unloading.
o Operation during discharge and tank cleaning.
o Purging tanks before gas freeing.
o Topping up the pressure in the cargo tanks when necessary during other stages of the voyage.
o Actions to be taken in the event of a failure of the inert gas system.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation of the vessel’s
inert gas system.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the actions to be taken in the event of a failure of the inert
gas system.
• The inert gas system was not in use at the time of the inspection, although its use was required by industry
guidance, SOLAS and IBC regulations and/or company procedures.
• Inerted cargo tanks were not being maintained at positive pressure.
• Inert gas was being delivered to the cargo tanks with an oxygen content in the IG main of more than 5% by
volume.
• The oxygen content of a randomly chosen inerted cargo tank was more than 8% by volume.
• Periodic checks had not been performed on the oxygen content of cargo tanks.
• Sampling of cargo, tank cleaning and gas freeing records showed that:
o The inert gas system had not been used in accordance with industry guidance, SOLAS and IBC
regulations and/or company procedures.
o When inerting a loaded tank before commencement of unloading, inert gas had not been
introduced into the tank through the distribution system while venting vapours in the tank to
atmosphere.
o When inerting a loaded tank before commencement of unloading, the inerting operation had not
continued until the oxygen content in the ullage space was at or below 8% by volume.
• Records of the operation of the inert gas system and/or inerting of cargo tanks were missing or incomplete.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
