## Question 8.2.3

**Paragraph Number:**
8.2.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the information contained in the
Procedures and Arrangements Manual, Certificate of Fitness for the Carriage of Noxious
Liquid Substances in Bulk, the IBC Code and the latest MEPC.2/Circular, and was this
information readily available to the officers engaged in cargo planning and operations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Chemical, LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IBC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
IMO: MEPC.2/Circ.25 Provisional categorization of liquid substances in accordance with MARPOL Annex II and the
IBC Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the Master and officers have the necessary information readily available to them to plan and
perform safe cargo operations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, in either hard copy or digital format, the P&A Manual, the list of permitted cargoes, the IBC Code and
the latest edition available of the MEPC.2/Circular.
• Interview the officer responsible for cargo planning and operations to verify their familiarity with the
information contained in the Procedures and Arrangements Manual, Certificate of Fitness for the Carriage of
Noxious Liquid Substances in Bulk, the IBC Code and the latest MEPC.2/Circular.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the information contained in the P&A
Manual that relates to their duties.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Procedures and Arrangements Manual.
• List of permitted cargoes.
• IBC Code.
• Latest edition available of the MEPC.2/Circular.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The officer responsible for cargo planning and operations was not familiar with the information contained in
the P&A Manual, Certificate of Fitness for the Carriage of Noxious Liquid Substances in Bulk, the IBC Code
and/or the latest MEPC.2/Circular.
• The officer responsible for cargo planning and operations was not familiar with the “stripping quantities” for
each cargo tank.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the information contained in the P&A Manual, as it related to
their duties.
• The P&A Manual was not readily available.
• On a ship engaged in international voyages, the P&A Manual was not available in either English, French or
Spanish.
• The information contained in the IBC Code was not readily available.
• A copy of the list of permitted cargoes was not readily available.
• A copy of the MEPC.2/Circular was not readily available.
• The MEPC.2/Circular available was not the latest edition.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
