## Question 8.2.2

**Paragraph Number:**
8.2.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures that addressed
the carriage of inhibited cargoes, and had these procedures been followed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IBC Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that inhibited cargoes are carried safely and in compliance with company procedures and the IBC
Code.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, company procedures that address the carriage of inhibited cargoes.
• Review cargo operation log books and records, inhibited cargo certificates of protection and contingency
plans in the event of uncontrolled polymerisation.
• During the course of the inspection, note if any parts of the venting system are blocked by solid polymers.
• Interview the responsible officer to verify their familiarity with company procedures that address the carriage
of inhibited cargoes
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
Where the vessel had not carried any inhibited cargoes during the previous six months, make a comment in the
Process response tool noting the last occasion an inhibited cargo was carried. Focus on the balance of the human
and procedural aspects of the guidance.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures that address the carriage of inhibited cargoes.
• Inhibited cargo certificates of protection.
• Inert gas logs relevant to the carriage of inhibited cargoes.
• Bridge and Cargo Log Books.
• Cargo tank temperature records relevant to the carriage of inhibited cargoes.
• Cargo load and discharge plans relevant to the carriage of inhibited cargoes.
• Contingency plans in the event of uncontrolled polymerisation of an inhibited cargo.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures that addressed the carriage of inhibited cargoes and included guidance
on:
o Inhibited cargo certificates of protection.
o Temperature monitoring of inhibited cargoes and adjacent spaces.
o Inerting of inhibited cargoes and monitoring of the oxygen level in the vapour space.
o Preventing a build-up of solid polymers in the venting system.
o The use of compressed nitrogen to clear arms/hoses after loading.
o The addition of extra inhibitor when provided on board.
o Contingency planning for uncontrolled polymerisation.
• The responsible officer was not familiar with the company procedures that addressed the carriage of
inhibited cargoes.
• There was no certificate of protection on board for an inhibited cargo, in accordance with IBC 15.13.3.
• The stated duration of effectiveness of the inhibitor had expired prior to discharge.
• Temperatures of an inhibited cargo had not been monitored during the voyage on at least a daily basis or as
recommended by the cargo manufacturer.
• Temperatures of spaces adjacent to inhibited cargoes had not been monitored on at least a daily basis.
• The oxygen level in the vapour space of a cargo protected by an oxygen dependent inhibitor had not been
monitored.
• A cargo protected by an oxygen dependent inhibitor had been inerted before loading or during carriage.
• There was no evidence that venting systems had been regularly inspected for the build-up of solid polymers,
e.g. log book entries or standing orders.
• Parts of the venting system were blocked by solid polymers.
• Compressed nitrogen had been used to clear the arms/hoses after loading a cargo with an oxygen
dependent inhibitor.
• There was no contingency plan in the event of uncontrolled polymerisation and a rapid rise in temperature of
an inhibited cargo.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
