## Question 8.2.5

**Paragraph Number:**
8.2.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and deck officers familiar with the company procedures for
identifying and segregating incompatible cargoes during cargo stowage planning, and
had these procedures been followed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IBC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 46.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure cargo stowage is carefully planned to avoid the possibility of co-mingling of incompatible cargoes
or their vapours.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for identifying and segregating incompatible
cargoes during cargo stowage planning.
• Sight, and where necessary review, the compatibility chart in use and verify it contains the latest information.
• Review current and previous cargo stowage plans to verify compliance with company procedures.
• During the course of the inspection, sight any operational means of segregation identified in the cargo
stowage plan such as spool pieces or spectacle flanges.
• Interview the officer responsible for cargo stowage planning to verify their familiarity with company
procedures for identifying and segregating incompatible cargoes, and the contents and use of the
compatibility charts provided on board.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for identifying and segregating incompatible cargoes during cargo stowage planning.
• Current and previous cargo stowage plans.
• Compatibility charts and appendices.
• P&A Manual.
• Relevant ship’s drawings showing acceptable segregation arrangements.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for cargo stowage planning that included:
o Identification of incompatible cargoes using recognised compatibility charts.
o Means of segregation of incompatible cargoes, including ship specific arrangements.
• The officer responsible for cargo stowage planning was not familiar with company procedures for identifying
and segregating incompatible cargoes.
• The officer responsible for cargo stowage planning was not familiar with the contents and use of the
compatibility charts provided on board.
• There were no compatibility charts issued by a recognised authority available on board.
• The compatibility charts provided on board did not contain the latest information available.
• The chart table footnotes and the data sheets for two particular cargoes had not been consulted during
stowage planning.
• Two incompatible cargoes had been stowed adjacent to each other or in a configuration that did not provide
double barrier separation.
• Incompatible cargoes had been stowed in tanks that shared a common venting system.
• Tank cleaning had been carried out after carriage of two incompatible cargoes without identifying mitigations
in the tank cleaning plan.
• Operational means of segregation were observed to be not as indicated in the cargo stowage plan.
• The cargo stowage plan did not identify when care should be taken to avoid the co-mingling of non-
compatible cargoes, which cargoes were involved, and the means of segregation.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
