## Question 8.2.8

**Paragraph Number:**
8.2.8

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures addressing the
protective equipment required by the IBC Code, and was this equipment in satisfactory
condition and suitable for the products being handled?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Main Deck, Internal Accommodation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IBC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure crew members are protected from exposure to hazardous conditions when engaged in cargo
operations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, company procedures, including the cargo-specific PPE matrix where
provided, addressing the protective equipment required by the IBC Code.
• Review the records of inspections of the protective equipment.
• Inspect a representative sample of the protective equipment in the storage location(s).
• Observe, where possible, protective equipment in use on deck.
• Interview the officer in charge of cargo operations to verify their familiarity with company procedures,
including the cargo-specific PPE matrix where provided, addressing the protective equipment required by
the IBC Code.
• Request a deck officer or rating to demonstrate or describe the selection and donning of a full set of
protective equipment including a protective suit.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures, including the cargo-specific PPE matrix where provided, addressing the protective
equipment required by the IBC Code.
• Records of inspections of the protective equipment.
• An inventory or the protective equipment available onboard required by the IBC Code
• SDS for the products being handled.
• Chemical resistance list available for the protective suits provided on board.
• Evidence that protective suits were suitable for use in a flammable atmosphere.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures addressing the protective equipment required by the IBC that included:
o A list of protective equipment to be available on board based upon risk assessment and
considering the products to be carried.
o What protective equipment was required to be worn for the different types of operations on board,
and products handled, preferably in the form of a cargo-specific PPE matrix.
o Crew training in the correct use of the protective equipment.
o Checks to be made that protective equipment is being correctly worn prior to entering a working
area.
o Assessment of a user’s fitness to wear particular protective equipment in given climatic conditions.
o Guidelines for the maximum time a person is allowed to work in a Type 1/level A and Type 3/level
B suit protective suit, if applicable.
o How protective equipment should be cleaned and stored.
o Actions to be taken if defects are identified in protective equipment.
o Frequency of inspection of the protective equipment and records to be kept.
• The officer in charge of cargo operations was not familiar with the company procedures addressing the
protective equipment required by the IBC Code.
• The PPE matrix, where provided, was not cargo-specific.
• PPE terminology was not standardised across all company documents.
• A crew member was observed not wearing adequate protective clothing where there was a risk of accidental
exposure to toxic or corrosive products or their vapours.
• A crew member was observed wearing protective clothing incorrectly where there was a risk of accidental
exposure to toxic or corrosive products or their vapours.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Protective equipment in use did not provide the degree of protection specified as being required in the SDS
of a cargo being handled.
• Face shields were being worn when disconnecting hoses at the manifold or during any other operation
where there was a risk of being splashed or sprayed with product under pressure.
• Safety spectacles were being used as eye protection in a chemical environment.
• Protective equipment was not stored in an easily accessible, ventilated space, designed for the purpose.
• Protective equipment in use was stored within the accommodation in an unauthorised space or spaces.
• Items of the protective equipment required by company procedures were not available on board.
• There was no chemical resistance list available for the protective suits provided on board.
• There was no evidence that chemical suits were suitable for use in a flammable atmosphere.
• An item of protective equipment in use was in poor condition.
• Gloves, boots and/or head gear were of inferior chemical resistance than the protective suits provided.
• Protective equipment was not available in a suitable quantity and range of sizes to fit the crew on board.
• A deck officer or rating was unfamiliar with the selection and donning of a full set of protective equipment
including a protective suit.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
8.3. Oil and Chemical
