## Question 8.3.22

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.22

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for managing
on-board doping operations, and had these procedures been complied with?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure on-board doping operations are properly planned, risk assessed and performed safely.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for managing on-board doping operations.
• Review records of current and/or past doping operations.
• If doping operations are taking place during the inspection, observe the operation including the method of
doping used, supervision by ship’s crew, use of PPE and anti-static precautions.
• Inspect stowage arrangements of any additives stored on board.
• Verify that safety data sheets for any additives stored onboard were available.
• Interview the officer responsible for cargo operations to verify their familiarity with the company procedures
for managing on-board doping operations.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for managing on-board doping operations.
• Doping plans.
• Associated risk assessments.
• Safety Data Sheets for additives used.
• Cargo operation log books.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for managing on-board doping operations that included:
o Reviewing the supplier’s/contractor’s doping plan.
o Performing a risk assessment of the proposed operation.
o Supervising the doping operation.
• The officer responsible for cargo operations was not familiar with the company procedures for managing on-
board doping operations.
• The vessel had not been provided with the supplier’s/contractor’s plan for an on-board doping operation.
• A risk assessment had not been performed based upon the supplier’s/contractor’s plan for an on-board
doping operation.
• The doping plan and/or risk assessment did not include:
o Any flammability or toxicity hazards associated with the additive.
o The method of doping to be used and any operational restrictions.
o Arrangements for supervision by ship’s crew.
o PPE and handling equipment requirements.
o Contingency measures including the method of clean-up of any spillages.
o Storage arrangements of any additives to be carried on board.
o Appropriate anti-static precautions if tanks were not inerted.
• There was no evidence that the doping plan and/or risk assessment had been discussed by all personnel
involved on the ship and in the terminal, including contractors.
• There was no Safety Data Sheet:
o Available for the additive(s) used for doping.
o Kept in the vicinity of the doping operation.
• Doping had taken place via an open tank lid when alternative methods were available.
• The doping method utilised involved free fall of additives into non-inerted cargo tanks.
• Additives were stored on board in a manner that did not reflect the flammability or toxicity hazards indicated
in the associated Safety Data Sheet.
• Pressure test records were not available for the injection system used for doping.
• PPE as required by the doping plan and/or risk assessment was not being utilised.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Contractors were not being supervised by ship’s crew as required by the doping plan and/or risk
assessment.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
