## Question 8.3.15

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.15

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for monitoring
leakage into the cofferdams of deepwell pumps, and had regular purging of the
cofferdams taken place to identify any excessive leakage?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck, Interview - Deck Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the vessel’s deep well pumps are always in full operational condition.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for monitoring leakage into the cofferdams of
deepwell pumps.
• Review the records of purging of the deepwell pump cofferdams.
• While inspecting a deepwell pump, interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The company procedures for monitoring leakage into the cofferdams of deepwell pumps.
o The connections, controls and indicators used during the purging process.
o The maximum pressure permitted for the purging medium.
o The purging medium required for the types of cargo recently carried.
o The manufacturer’s and company guidance on the use of liquid to fill the cofferdams for speciality
products, where this practice was utilised.
• Interview a selected rating, for example the pumpman, to verify their familiarity with the safety precautions to
be taken when purging deepwell pump cofferdams.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for monitoring leakage into the cofferdams of deepwell pumps.
• Manufacturer’s instruction manual(s) for the deepwell pumps.
• Records of purging of the deepwell pump cofferdams.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for monitoring leakage into the cofferdams of deepwell pumps.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with:
o The company procedure for monitoring leakage into the cofferdams of deepwell pumps.
o The connections, controls and indicators used during the purging process.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The maximum pressure permitted for the purging medium.
o The purging medium required for the types of cargo recently carried.
o The manufacturer’s and company guidance on the use of liquid to fill the cofferdams for specialty
products, where this practice was utilised.
• Purging had not been carried out as required by the company procedure for monitoring leakage into the
cofferdams of deepwell pumps.
• There were no detailed records of purging as required by the company procedure for monitoring leakage
into the cofferdams of deepwell pumps.
• Records of purging indicated leakage levels above the manufacturer’s set limits for cargo, hydraulic oil or
lubricating oil for one or more pump, but no defect report(s) had been created to resolve the situation at the
next suitable opportunity.
• Records of purging indicated that the cofferdam of one or more pump was apparently blocked, but no defect
report(s) had been created to resolve the situation at the next suitable opportunity.
• An interviewed rating was not familiar with the safety precautions to be taken when purging the deepwell
pump cofferdams.
Where purging records indicated that one or more pumps had leakage levels above the manufacturer’s set limits or
that the cofferdams were blocked, but a defect report had been created to correct the situation at the next suitable
opportunity, enter a comment in Hardware response tool and provide brief details of the defects recorded.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
