## Question 8.3.25

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.25

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and deck officers familiar with the company procedures for
receiving nitrogen from shore for operations such as inerting, purging or padding cargo
tank, or for clearing cargo lines?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
CDI: Best Practice Recommendations Regarding the use of Nitrogen. First Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure cargo tanks are not over pressurised, possibly resulting in serious deformation or catastrophic
failure of the tank structure.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which described the procedure for receiving
nitrogen from the shore for operations such as inerting or purging tanks, for padding cargo tanks or to clear
lines.
• Review the records and completed risk assessments for at least one operation where nitrogen had been
received from shore within the last six months.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the procedures for receiving nitrogen from
shore.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which described the procedure for receiving nitrogen from the shore for operations
such as inerting or purging tanks, for padding cargo tanks or to clear lines.
• Records and completed risk assessments for operations where nitrogen had been received from shore
within the last six months.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which described the processes for receiving nitrogen from the shore for
operations such as for operations such as, inerting, purging or padding cargo tanks or for clearing cargo
lines.
• Company procedures did not describe the actions to be taken to avoid over pressurisation of cargo tanks
when nitrogen is received from shore, including the:
o Requirement to carry out a risk assessment prior to operations.
o Choice of connection and piping system for receiving the nitrogen.
o Methods of controlling the incoming flow of nitrogen.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures which described the procedure for
receiving nitrogen from the shore for operations such as inerting or purging tanks, for padding cargo tanks or
to clear lines.
• Risk assessments were not available for operations where the vessel received nitrogen from ashore.
• Ship shore safety checklists for cargo operations that included receiving nitrogen from shore had not been
completed to document the agreed procedures to receive nitrogen, the maximum pressure and the flow rate.
• Records showed that hoses or loading arms containing flammable cargo had been cleared to the ship using
compressed air.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
8.4. LPG
