## Question 8.3.16

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.16

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the purpose, operation, testing and
maintenance of the non-return devices installed in the inert gas system, and were these
devices in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: FSS Code
IMO: Inert Gas Systems

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the devices installed in the inert gas system to prevent the return of vapour and liquid to the inert
gas plant, or to any gas-safe spaces, function correctly.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and
maintenance of the inert gas system which included the:
o deck seal or double block and bleed arrangement
o non-return valve
• Inspect the IG main non-return valve and verify it had been opened and inspected as required by company
procedures.
• Inspect the deck seal, if fitted, and verify that the:
o Water level gauge is clear and readable.
o Water level is as required.
o Overall fabric condition of the deck seal is satisfactory, including pipework.
o Deck seal had been opened and inspected as required by company procedures, including
pipework.
• Inspect the double block and bleed arrangement, if fitted, and verify that:
o All valves are operating automatically.
o There was evidence that the valves had been tested/inspected for automatic operation and
tightness.
• Where necessary, review the records for the inspection, testing and maintenance of the non-return devices
installed in the inert gas system.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation, testing and
maintenance of the non-return devices installed in the inert gas system

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the vessel’s inert gas
system.
• The records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the non-return devices installed in the inert gas
system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas
system that included the:
o deck seal or double block and bleed arrangement
o non-return valve
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation, inspection,
testing and maintenance of the inert gas system that included the:
o deck seal or double block and bleed arrangement
o non-return valve
• There was no evidence that the IG main non-return valve had been opened and inspected as required by
company procedures.
• There was no evidence that the block and bleed valve arrangement, where fitted, had been tested/inspected
for automatic operation and tightness.
• The deck seal level gauge was not clear and readable.
• The deck seal water level was not as required.
• The fabric condition of the deck seal, including pipework, was not satisfactory.
• There was no evidence to show the deck seal had been opened and inspected, including pipework, as
required by company procedures.
• The valves of the double block and bleed arrangement were not operating automatically as required.
• The non-return devices installed in the inert gas system were defective in any respect.
Where a dry-type deck seal is fitted record as a comment in the Hardware response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
