## Question 8.3.3

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the purpose, operation and testing of the
flue gas inert gas system, and had the system been operated and maintained in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: FSS Code
IMO: Inert Gas Systems

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the flue gas inert gas system always delivers inert gas in accordance with its design criteria.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and
maintenance of the vessel’s inert gas system which included the:
o Boiler uptake valves.
o Scrubber.
o Demister.
o Blowers.
o Gas regulating valve.
• Inspect the inert gas plant located in the machinery spaces and verify that:
o Where the inert gas plant was contained in an enclosed room or space, safe entry procedures were
posted at each entrance to the room.
o Each component of the inert gas system was in good order and free of inert gas or liquid leaks.
o The inert gas pipelines and scrubber seawater lines were free of pinholes or temporary repairs.
o Blowers were free of excessive vibration.
o The actuators for the gas regulating valve and remote operated isolation valves were operating
automatically/remotely.
o Local or remote temperature or pressure sensing devices were connected and indicating
reasonable values
• Where necessary, review the records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas system and
verify that scheduled inspections and maintenance on the equipment had taken place.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation, inspection, testing
and maintenance of the inert gas system including the:
o Boiler uptake valves.
o Scrubber.
o Demister.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Blowers.
o Gas regulating valve.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the inert gas system.
• The manufacturer's instruction and maintenance manual for the flue gas inert gas system.
• The records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the vessel’s
inert gas system which included the:
o Boiler uptake valves.
o Scrubber.
o Demister.
o Blowers.
o Gas regulating valve.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance
and testing of the vessel’s inert gas system.
• Where the inert gas plant was contained in an enclosed room or space, there were no safe entry procedures
posted at each entrance to the room.
• The records of inspection and maintenance of the inert gas plant was missing or incomplete.
• The gas regulating valve or remote controlled isolation valves were being operated on local control.
• Local or remote temperature or pressure sensing devices were disconnected or defective.
• There were significant gas or liquid leaks from the inert gas plant.
• Blower(s) were suffering excessive vibration.
• The inert gas plant was defective in any respect.
Where the entry procedures posted at the entrance(s) to the space or spaces containing the inert gas system were
not in alignment with the enclosed space entry procedure in the SMS or, entry into a space containing the inert gas
system was authorised during the inspection without full compliance with the enclosed space entry procedure, make
an observation under question 5.5.1.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
