## Question 8.3.20

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.20

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the purpose and operation of the
connections and interconnections to the inert gas system for routine and emergency
inert gas operations, and were these arrangements in satisfactory condition and clearly
identified as to their purpose?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO SOLAS
IMO: FSS Code
IMO: Inert Gas Systems
IACS UI SC 272 Inert gas supply to double-hull spaces (SOLAS II-2/4.5.5.1)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the Master and officers are familiar with the location and use of connections to, and
interconnections with, the inert gas system, which may include:
• Connections for the emergency supply of inert gas from an external source.
• Connections for portable arrangements to introduce inert gas to the double hull spaces.
• Fixed interconnections with the ballast system piping to introduce inert gas to the double hull
spaces.
• Fixed interconnections with the cargo system piping to introduce inert gas to the cargo tanks.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance
of the vessel’s inert gas system. which included the arrangements for the:
o Supply of inert gas to the double-hull spaces in an emergency.
o External supply of inert gas in the event of a failure of the vessel’s inert gas system.
o Connection of the inert gas supply main to the cargo piping system for inerting, purging and gas-
freeing, if fitted.
• Inspect the
o Arrangements for the supply of inert gas to the double-hull spaces, including portable hoses if they
form part of the arrangements.
o Where hull spaces were connected to a permanently fitted inert gas distribution system, inspect the
means to prevent hydrocarbon gases from the cargo tanks entering the double hull spaces through
the system.
o Connection for an external supply of inert gas.
o Arrangements for the connection of the inert gas supply main to the cargo piping system for
inerting, purging and gas-freeing, if fitted.
• Where necessary review the records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the arrangements for
connection to the inert gas system.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the arrangements for the:
o Supply of inert gas to the double-hull spaces in an emergency, including the forepeak where this
was adjacent to a cargo space or spaces.
o External supply of inert gas in the event of a failure of the vessel’s inert gas system.
o Connection of the inert gas supply main to the cargo piping system for inerting, purging and gas-
freeing, if fitted.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance of the vessel’s inert gas system.
• The detailed instruction manuals for the inert gas system.
• Cargo and inert gas operation log books.
• The records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the arrangements for connection to the inert gas
system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance of the vessel’s inert gas
system which included the arrangements for the:
o Supply of inert gas to the double-hull spaces in an emergency.
o External supply of inert gas in the event of a failure of the vessel’s inert gas system.
o Connection of the inert gas supply main to the cargo piping system for inerting, purging and gas-
freeing, if fitted.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the arrangements for the:
o Supply of inert gas to the double-hull spaces in an emergency, including the forepeak.
o External supply of inert gas in the event of a failure of the vessel’s inert gas system.
o Connection of the inert gas supply main to the cargo piping system for inerting, purging and gas-
freeing, if fitted.
• The connection for the external supply of inert gas was not clearly marked with its purpose.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The spool piece to isolate the inert gas supply main from the cargo piping system had been left in place.
• There was no evidence of inspection and maintenance of the non-return valve between the inert gas supply
main and the cargo piping system.
• Portable hoses required to connect the inert gas supply main to the double-hull spaces were damaged or
missing.
• One or more of the connections to the inert gas supply main were defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
