## Question 8.3.18

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.18

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the purpose, operation, testing and
maintenance of the pressure/vacuum-breaking (P/V) device(s) installed in the inert gas
main, and was this device(s) in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Main Deck, Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS

---

### **Objective**
To ensure cargo tanks are not subject to excessive pressure or vacuum should the inert gas system fail or
where the venting system is used inappropriately.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and
maintenance of the inert gas system which included the pressure/vacuum-breaking devices.
• Inspect the P/V breaker(s) and verify that it is marked with the:
o Design pressure and vacuum opening settings.
o Date of the last inspection.
o Type/quantity of anti-freeze and the lowest allowable ambient temperature.
• Assess the fabric condition of the P/V breaker(s), including flame screens.
• Where possible, verify the liquid level in the P/V breaker(s).
• Where necessary, review the records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the pressure/vacuum
breaking device(s) installed in the inert gas system.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The purpose of the pressure/vacuum breaking device(s) installed in the inert gas system.
o The method of verifying the correct liquid level in the P/V breaker, especially where the level could
only be verified at atmospheric pressure.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the vessel’s inert gas
system.
• The records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the pressure/vacuum breaking device(s) installed in
the inert gas system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas
system that included the pressure/vacuum-breaking devices.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation, inspection,
testing and maintenance of the inert gas system that included the pressure/vacuum-breaking devices.
• The fabric condition of a P/V breaker was unsatisfactory.
• P/V breaker flame screens were damaged, missing, fitted with gaps, or had been repaired with mesh which
did not conform to the required mesh gauge specification.
• The liquid level in a P/V breaker indicated that the device was not filled to the design settings.
• The P/V breaker liquid level gauge was not clear and readable.
• A P/V breaker was not marked with the:
o Design pressure and vacuum opening settings.
o Date of the last inspection.
o Type/quantity of anti-freeze and the lowest allowable temperature.
• A P/V breaker was
o Set to operate at a lower pressure than that of the secondary venting system
o Not set within the safe parameters of the tank structure.
o Defective in any respect.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with:
o The purpose of a liquid P/V breaker.
o The process to verify the liquid level in a liquid P/V breaker.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
