## Question 8.3.12

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.12

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the use of
portable cargo ullage/temperature/interface (UTI) measurement and sampling equipment,
and was the equipment in satisfactory condition and used in accordance with the
company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck, Interview - Deck Rating
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that portable UTI and sampling equipment is always used in accordance with international
regulations and industry best practice.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review the company procedures describing the use, operation, testing,
calibration and servicing of the of portable cargo ullage/temperature/interface (UTI) measurement and
sampling equipment
• Review the service and calibration records for each portable cargo UTI measurement unit carried.
• Where necessary review the:
o Manufacturer’s manuals and instructions for the portable cargo UTI measurement and sampling
equipment.
o Records of pre-operational checks of the portable cargo UTI measurement and sampling
equipment.
• Inspect two portable cargo UTI measurement units and verify that:
o The units were appropriately rated as closed, restricted or open for the operations being
undertaken.
o The grounding wire and clip was properly fixed to the device and in use where required.
o When the sensors were placed in a bucket of water:
 The ullage/interface function sounded.
 The temperature reading was accurate compared to a manual thermometer.
• Interview a deck rating to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for safe use of the portable UTI
measurement and sampling equipment including grounding requirements and PPE and RPE requirements.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures describing the use, operation, testing, calibration and servicing of the of portable
cargo ullage/temperature/interface (UTI) measurement and sampling equipment.
• The manufacturer’s manuals and instructions for the portable cargo UTI measurement and sampling
equipment provided.
• The records of pre-operational checks of the portable cargo UTI measurement and sampling equipment.
• The service and calibration records for the portable cargo UTI measurement units.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There were no company procedures describing the use, operation, testing, calibration and servicing of the of
portable cargo ullage/temperature/interface (UTI) measurement and sampling equipment.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures describing the use, operation,
testing and maintenance of the UTI measurement and sampling equipment.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with:
o The service rating of the portable UTI measurement and sampling equipment provided onboard.
o The service and calibration requirements.
o The pre-operational checks of portable UTI measurement and sampling equipment.
o The procedures for safe use of the equipment including PPE and RPE requirements.
o The bonding requirements for using the UTI measurement and sampling equipment.
• An interviewed deck rating was not familiar with the company procedures for safe use of the portable UTI
measurement and sampling equipment including PPE and RPE requirements.
• The portable UTI measurement and sampling equipment in use was not of the correct rating for the cargo
being handled, e.g. equipment rated as ‘restricted’ was being used in tanks where the cargo being handled
required a ‘closed’ device.
• Portable UTI measurement and sampling equipment was not being used in accordance with the company
procedures for safe use including PPE and RPE requirements.
• There was no control of the opening of vapour locks and/or ullage ports by unauthorised personnel e.g.
cargo inspectors.
• Where open cargo measurement and sampling was permitted, cargo tank openings had been left open after
gauging had been completed.
• Portable UTI measurement or sampling equipment was being used without being bonded in a non-inert
atmosphere or where the company procedure required bonding to be in use.
• One or more vapour locks were noted to be leaking during use or when closed with the cap on.
• One or more vapour lock was observed to be damaged or missing.
• Inappropriate measurement or sampling equipment was observed being used through the vapour locks (e.g.
sounding rods which did not fit on the vapour locks provided).
• Portable UTI measurement and sampling equipment had not been serviced or calibrated according to
manufacturer’s instructions or did not have the associated certificates.
• No fixed ullage system was fitted but there were insufficient portable UTI units provided to simultaneously
gauge each tank being worked, plus two spares.
• More than two portable UTI measurement units were out of service on a vessel with no fixed cargo level
measurement system.
• There were less than two operational UTI measurement units on a vessel fitted with an operational fixed
cargo level measurement system.
Where a vessel was fitted with a fixed cargo level measurement system which was out of service, make a comment
in the Hardware response tool to record the number of functioning UTI measurement units that were available.
Address the defective fixed cargo level measurement system through question 8.99.5
Address any issues relating to measurement or sampling of static accumulator cargoes in non-inert tanks through
question 8.3.5
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
