## Question 8.3.2

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the purpose, operation and testing of the
nitrogen generator inert gas system, and had the system been operated and maintained
in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
European Industrial Gases Association: Safe Installation And Operation Of PSA and Membrane Oxygen And
Nitrogen Generators
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: FSS Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the nitrogen generator inert gas system always delivers inert gas in accordance with its design
criteria.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and
maintenance of the vessel’s inert gas system which included the nitrogen generator and its associated
equipment.
• Inspect the nitrogen generator and its associated equipment including, where fitted:
o Air and nitrogen compressor.
o Feed air treatment system.
o PSA or membrane nitrogen. generating units.
o Nitrogen receiver or buffer tank.
• Verify the following visual and audible alarms are in good order:
o Failure of the electric heater, if fitted.
o Low feed-air pressure or flow from the compressor.
o High-air temperature.
o High condensate level at the automatic drain of the water separator.
• Where the air compressor and nitrogen generator, nitrogen receiver or buffer tank are installed in a
dedicated compartment, verify:
o That the independent mechanical extraction ventilation system is operating correctly.
o Safe entry procedures are posted at each entrance to the compartment.
o Warning signs are posted at each entrance to the space warning of the dangers of asphyxiation in
a nitrogen enriched atmosphere.
• Where necessary, review the records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas system and
verify that scheduled inspections and maintenance on the equipment had taken place.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation, inspection, testing
and maintenance of the inert gas system including the nitrogen generator and its associated equipment and
the dangers of:
o An oxygen deficient atmosphere as a result of nitrogen leakage.
o An oxygen-enriched exhaust from the nitrogen generator.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the inert gas system.
• The manufacturer’s instruction and maintenance manual for the nitrogen generator inert gas system.
• The records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the vessel’s
inert gas system which included the nitrogen generator and its associated equipment.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance
and testing of the vessel’s inert gas system including the nitrogen generator.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the dangers from:
o An oxygen deficient atmosphere as a result of nitrogen leakage.
o The oxygen-enriched exhaust from the nitrogen generator.
• The record of inspection and maintenance of the inert gas plant, including defects and their rectification, was
missing or incomplete.
• Any of the following visual and audible alarms was inoperative:
o Failure of the electric heater, if fitted.
o Low feed-air pressure or flow from the compressor.
o High-air temperature.
o High condensate level at the automatic drain of the water separator.
• The independent mechanical extraction ventilation system serving a dedicated space containing the air
compressor and nitrogen generator or the nitrogen receiver or buffer tank was not operating correctly.
• Where the air compressor and nitrogen generator, nitrogen receiver or buffer tank were installed in a
dedicated compartment, there were no safe entry procedures posted at each entrance to the compartment.
• The nitrogen generator and its associated equipment was defective in any respect.
Where:
• The entry procedures posted at the entrance of the space, or spaces, containing the air compressor,
nitrogen generator and nitrogen receiver or buffer tank, were not in alignment with the enclosed space entry
procedure in the SMS or,
• Entry into a space or spaces containing the air compressor, nitrogen generator and nitrogen receiver or
buffer tank was authorised during the inspection without full compliance with the enclosed space entry
procedure.
Make an appropriate observation under question 5.5.1.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
