## Question 8.3.5

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, deck officers and deck ratings familiar with the company
procedures for dipping, ullaging and sampling flammable static accumulator cargoes in
non-inerted tanks, and were these procedures being followed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck, Interview - Deck Rating
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the required additional precautions are taken when dipping, ullaging and sampling flammable
static accumulator cargoes in non-inerted tanks.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for dipping, ullaging and sampling flammable
static accumulator cargoes in non-inerted tanks.
• If the vessel is fitted with a fixed tank level gauging system but is not fitted with IG and not fitted with full
depth sounding pipes, the operator's procedure to be followed in the event of failure of the fixed gauging
system must be reviewed.
• Observe dipping, ullaging and sampling taking place, if possible.
• Review cargo log books and records to verify compliance with company procedures.
• Interview the officer in charge of cargo operations to verify their familiarity with company procedures for
dipping, ullaging and sampling flammable static accumulator cargoes in non-inerted tanks.
• Interview a deck rating to verify their familiarity with company procedures for dipping, ullaging and sampling
flammable static accumulator cargoes in non-inerted tanks.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for dipping, ullaging and sampling flammable static accumulator cargoes in non-
inerted tanks.
• Cargo log books and records.
• Drawings/plans relating to cargo tank sounding pipes.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for dipping, ullaging and sampling flammable static accumulator
cargoes in non-inerted tanks that described the additional precautions to be taken against static electricity
including:
o A description of the dipping, ullaging and sampling equipment to be used.
o Bonding/earthing/cleaning procedures for this equipment.
o Settling time after completion of operations.
o Additional precautions if the vessel is not fitted with properly designed and installed full length
sounding pipes.
o Actions to be taken in the event of a failure of the fixed tank gauging system, if fitted.
• The officer in charge of cargo operations was not familiar with the company procedures for dipping, ullaging
and sampling flammable static accumulator cargoes in non-inerted tanks.
• A deck rating was not familiar with the company procedures for dipping, ullaging and sampling flammable
static accumulator cargoes in non-inerted tanks as they related to their duties.
• There was no information available on the type of sounding pipes fitted in the cargo tanks.
• In a vessel fitted with a fixed tank level gauging system but not fitted with IG and not fitted with full depth
sounding pipes, the operator's procedure to be followed in the event of failure of the fixed gauging system
did not adequately address the additional precautions required for dipping, ullaging and sampling flammable
static accumulator cargoes in non-inerted tanks.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Metallic components of any equipment used for dipping, ullaging and sampling were not bonded to the metal
structure of the vessel.
• Metal ullaging, dipping, gauging or sampling equipment was introduced into a cargo tank during product
transfer or within 30 minutes of completion without the use of a full-length sounding pipe.
• A non- metal sampling container of more than one litre capacity was introduced into a cargo tank during
product transfer or within 30 minutes of completion without the use of a full-length sounding pipe.
• Ropes or tapes made of synthetic materials had been used for lowering ullaging and/or sampling equipment
into cargo tanks.
• A non-metal sampling container was rubbed dry prior to being introduced to a cargo tank.
• Sounding pipes used for dipping, ullaging and sampling cargo tanks were not metallic and/or did not extend
the full depth of the tank and/or were not effectively bonded and earthed to the tank structure.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
