## Question 8.3.19

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.19

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the purpose, operation and testing of
the indicators and alarms in the inert gas system, and had the equipment been operated,
maintained and calibrated in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and
company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: FSS Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the inert gas system always delivers inert gas in accordance with its design criteria.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and
maintenance of the vessel’s inert gas system which included the indicators and alarms.
• Inspect the inert gas system fixed instrumentation, controls, indicators and alarms and verify:
o The oxygen and pressure recording devices were accurately recording the inert gas oxygen
content and main IG line pressure against the date and time.
o Lamps and indicators were functioning by requesting that the lamp and alarm test feature is
operated.
• Verify that the local and remote indicators for oxygen content, inert gas pressure, temperature etc. were
consistent.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Review the test and calibration records for the inert gas system instruments and alarms.
• Where necessary review the records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas system and
verify that scheduled inspections and maintenance on the equipment had taken place.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation, and testing of the
inert gas system indicators and alarms including the:
o Method and frequency of testing and calibration of the indicators and alarms.
o Actions to be taken in the event of a failure of any of the indicators and alarms.
o Actions to be taken in the event of the activation of any of the alarms.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the inert gas system.
• The records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas system.
• The manufacturer’s instruction manuals for the operation, calibration and testing of all inert gas system
instruments and alarms.
• The test and calibration records for the inert gas system instruments and alarms.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the vessel’s
inert gas system which included the indicators and alarms.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose, operation, inspection, testing and maintenance
of the inert gas system indicators and alarms including the:
o Method and frequency of testing and calibration of the indicators and alarms.
o Actions to be taken in the event of a failure of any of the indicators and alarms.
• The record of inspection and maintenance of the inert gas plant, including defects and their rectification, was
missing or incomplete.
• The inert gas control panel pressure indicator and/or recorder was:
o Defective in any respect.
o Not consistent with local pressure indicator(s) on deck.
• The inert gas control panel oxygen content indicator and/or recorder was
o Defective in any respect.
o Not consistent with the local indicator at the fixed oxygen analyser.
• The inert gas pressure indicator fitted in the navigating bridge was inoperative or not consistent with the inert
gas control panel pressure indicator.
• The machinery space control room/machinery space inert gas oxygen content indicator was inoperative or
not consistent with the local indicator at the fixed oxygen analyser.
• Any of the required audible and visual alarms in the inert gas control panel or in the engine control
room/machinery space were inoperative.
• The independent audible alarm or automatic shutdown of cargo pumps at low-low inert gas pressure in the
inert gas main was inoperative.
• There were no clear instructions provided for operating, calibrating and testing all instruments and alarms.
• There were no suitable calibration facilities provided for the inert gas instrumentation.
• There were no records of calibration for the inert gas instrumentation.
• Inert gas instruments were not graduated to a consistent system of units, for example, inert gas pressure
indicators.
• Inert gas system indicators and alarms were defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
