## Question 8.3.23

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.23

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
maintenance, testing and calibration of the cargo temperature monitoring equipment,
and was the equipment in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IBC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the cargo temperature monitoring equipment is maintained in full operational condition.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review the company procedures for the maintenance, testing and calibration of
the cargo temperature monitoring equipment.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Request a demonstration of fixed cargo temperature monitoring equipment, including alarms, if fitted.
• Review where necessary the:
o Manufacturer’s manuals and instructions for the fixed cargo temperature monitoring equipment.
o Records of checks, tests and calibration of the cargo temperature monitoring equipment.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with company procedures for the maintenance,
testing and calibration of the cargo temperature monitoring equipment.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the maintenance, testing and calibration of the cargo temperature monitoring
equipment.
• Manufacturer’s manuals and instructions for the fixed cargo temperature monitoring equipment.
• Records of checks, tests and calibration of the cargo temperature monitoring equipment.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the maintenance, testing and calibration of the cargo temperature
monitoring equipment in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the maintenance, testing and
calibration of the cargo temperature monitoring equipment.
• The accompanying officer was unable to demonstrate the operation of the fixed cargo temperature
monitoring equipment, including alarms.
• There were no records of checks, tests or calibration of the cargo temperature monitoring equipment.
• The fixed cargo temperature monitoring equipment had not been tested and calibrated in accordance with
manufacturer’s instructions.
• The fixed cargo temperature monitoring equipment had not been calibrated within the last 30 months.
• Portable cargo temperature monitoring equipment had not been tested and calibrated in accordance with
manufacturer’s instructions.
• One or more temperature sensor in the fixed cargo temperature monitoring system was defective.
• The visible and/or audible alarm in the fixed temperature monitoring system was defective.
• The cargo temperature monitoring equipment was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
