## Question 8.3.14

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.14

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the cargo tank venting systems, and
were the systems in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: Inert Gas Systems

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that cargo tank venting systems are maintained in satisfactory condition and operated correctly.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and
maintenance of the cargo tank venting systems.
• Review the records of inspection, maintenance and pre-operational tests of P/V valves and/or high velocity
vents.
• Review the information provided regarding the maximum permissible loading rate for each cargo tank and in
the case of combined venting systems, for each group of cargo tanks.
• Assess the condition of, where fitted:
o P/V valves.
o High velocity vents
o Mast risers.
o Vent stacks.
o Vacuum valves.
o Flame screens.
o Vapour lines.
• Verify that high velocity vents were being operated correctly.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the operation,
inspection, testing and maintenance of the cargo tank venting systems.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the cargo tank venting
systems.
• Records of inspection and maintenance of P/V valves and/or high velocity vents, which may be contained in
the planned maintenance system.
• Ship Shore Safety Check Lists
• Information regarding the maximum permissible loading rate for each cargo tank and in the case of
combined venting systems, for each group of cargo tanks.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation, inspection,
testing and maintenance of the cargo tank venting systems.
• There were no records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the cargo tank venting systems.
• P/V valves and/or high velocity vents had not been checked for free movement prior to the commencement
of each cargo operation as required by the Ship Shore Safety Check List – Part 1A. Tanker checks pre-
arrival, item 6.
• No information was available regarding the maximum permissible loading rate for each cargo tank and in the
case of combined venting systems, for each group of cargo tanks.
• The flame screen for a P/V valve or mast riser was damaged, clogged or missing.
• A P/V valve and/or high velocity vent was passing vapour or drawing air inside its design pressure or
vacuum setting.
• High velocity vents had been jacked open during cargo operations.
• A vapour line was in unsatisfactory condition, for example, heavily corroded or with soft patches.
• A P/V valve or high velocity vent was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
