## Question 8.3.11

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.11

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, deck officers and deck ratings familiar with the company
procedures for cargo tank washing after the carriage of volatile products in a non-inert
atmosphere, and had these procedures been followed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Deck Rating, Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that tank washing operations after the carriage of volatile products in a non-inert atmosphere are
always conducted safely, and in accordance with the recommendations of ISGOTT6.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for cargo tank washing after the carriage of
volatile products in a non-inert atmosphere.
• Review available tank cleaning plans, risk assessments, log books and records to verify compliance with
company procedures.
• Review records of electrical continuity testing of portable tank cleaning hoses and portable
hydrant/hose/machine connections, where applicable.
• During the course of the inspection, inspect fixed and portable tank cleaning equipment to verify its condition
and marking for identification.
• Interview the officer responsible for tank washing operations to verify their familiarity with company
procedures for cargo tank washing after the carriage of volatile products in a non-inert atmosphere.
• Interview a deck rating to verify their familiarity with company procedures relating to introducing sounding
rods and other equipment into a tank during tank washing after the carriage of volatile products in a non-
inert atmosphere.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for cargo tank washing after the carriage of volatile products in a non-inert
atmosphere.
• Completed plans, risk assessments, log books and records for previous tank cleaning operations.
• Records of electrical continuity testing of portable tank cleaning hoses and portable hydrant/hose/machine
connections, where applicable.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for cargo tank washing after the carriage of volatile products in a non-
inert atmosphere that included,
o Precautions to:
 Control the fuel in the tank atmosphere.
 Control the sources of ignition in the tank.
o Bonding of portable tank washing machines and hoses.
o Testing tank cleaning hoses.
o Avoiding the free-fall or spraying of water into a tank.
o Prohibition of steaming.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The officer responsible for tank washing operations was not familiar with the company procedures for cargo
tank washing after the carriage of volatile products in a non-inert atmosphere.
• An interviewed rating was not familiar with the company procedures relating to introducing sounding rods
and other equipment into a tank during tank washing after the carriage of volatile products in a non-inert
atmosphere.
• Records and interviews indicated that before tank washing in a non-inert atmosphere:
o The tank bottom and/or the pipeline system had not been flushed and stripped.
o The tank atmosphere had not been ventilated to less than 10% LFL.
o The electrical continuity of portable hoses had not been tested or tested resistance exceeded 6
ohms per metre length.
o The portable tank washing hoses were not indelibly marked for identification purposes.
o The electrical continuity of portable hydrant/hose/machine connections had not been tested.
• Records and interviews indicated that during tank washing in a non-inert atmosphere:
o The tank atmospheres had not been tested frequently
o The tank atmosphere had exceeded 35% LFL, but washing had continued.
o The tank washing had recommenced with a tank atmosphere above 10% LFL.
o Wash water throughput was above the recommended levels.
o Recirculated water was used for washing.
o Steam had been injected into a tank that was not verified as being gas free.
o Steam had continued to be injected while the atmosphere exceeded 10% LFL.
o The recommended methods/equipment had not been used for dipping tanks.
o The liquid level in the slop tank was not maintained at least one metre above the discharge inlets.
• Tank cleaning equipment was defective or deficient in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
