## Question 8.3.24

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.24

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for managing
cargo and vapour connections at the cargo manifolds, and were the manifold
arrangements in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Manifold
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IBC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
OCIMF/CDI: Recommendations for Oil and Chemical Tanker Manifolds and Associated Equipment

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that cargo and vapour manifolds are always properly connected and monitored throughout cargo
transfer operations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which described the management of cargo
and vapour connections at the cargo manifolds to prevent and detect leakages.
• Inspect cargo and vapour manifolds, including bow and stern manifolds where fitted, and verify that the
arrangements were in alignment with industry best practice and, where applicable, regulation.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which described the management of cargo and vapour connections at the cargo
manifolds to prevent and detect leakages.
• Documentation supporting the pressure rating of manifold blanks, where appropriate.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There were no company procedures which described the management of cargo and vapour connections at
the cargo manifolds to prevent and detect leakages.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures which described the management
of cargo and vapour connections at the cargo manifolds to prevent and detect leakages.
• A manifold connection was:
o Secured with damaged bolts or bolts of an inappropriate diameter, length or material.
o Not fully bolted, i.e. without a bolt in every hole in the flange.
o Made using improvised arrangements such as a G-clamp or similar device.
• Where a hose or marine loading arm was secured by camlocks, one or more cams had not properly
engaged with the manifold flange.
• A marine loading arm was improperly supported by jacks or similar arrangements.
• The jacks for a marine loading arm were supported by items not designed to support the load, such as
empty oil drums.
• Cargo hoses were not properly supported during cargo transfer.
• On a chemical tanker, manifold flanges in use were not fitted with spray guards whilst handling acids, or
another cargo that was toxic or corrosive.
• A manifold pressure gauge was:
o Not fitted on the outboard side of the manifold valve.
o Missing from an unused manifold connection.
o Indicating an increased pressure and possible manifold valve leakage.
• A manifold pressure gauge stem was not fitted with a valve or cock and/or was not capped when not in use
• A manifold blank flange was not:
o As thick as the end flange it was bolted to and there was no supporting documentation to show it
was of the same working pressure rating as the line or system it was connected to.
o Made of steel or other approved material.
o Secured with bolts of an inappropriate diameter, length or material.
o Fully bolted, i.e. without a bolt in every hole in the flange.
• There was a cargo or bunker leak from an unused manifold.
• An unused manifold was not blanked.
• A manifold sample point or drain was not blanked or capped when not in use.
• A manifold sample point or drain was positioned to drain directly onto the deck.
• The manifold(s) had been drained into the open drip-trays.
• Fixed and/or portable drip-trays had not been drained and cleaned of cargo residues.
• There was no permanent or portable drip-tray underneath a manifold connection.
• Plywood or canvas sheeting had been placed across the manifold drip tray gratings to prevent minor
spillages entering the drip tray freely.
• A portable drip-tray was made of plastic or another non-metallic material but was not bonded to the ship’s
structure.
• Manifold drip-tray drains to deck were not fitted with valves and capped.
• On a chemical tanker, there were no suitable means to ensure incompatible cargoes were not mixed in
manifold drip trays and/or drain tanks.
• Vapour manifold presentation flanges were not fitted with the required stud at the 12 o’clock position.
• Vapour manifold connections, including reducers, were not painted/marked as required.
• An elevated manifold working platform did not have effective edge protection and was not properly identified
and marked by warning signs to prevent falls.
• The midships hose-handling crane was being used to handle stores etc. whilst cargo operations were taking
place.
• An unused stern manifold was not isolated from the main cargo pipeline system by a blank or the removal of
a spool piece.
• The dangerous area extending at least three metres from the stern manifold valve in use was not clearly
marked to prevent access by unauthorised personnel.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
