## Question 8.3.6

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and deck officers familiar with the company procedures for
loading flammable static accumulator cargoes into non-inerted tanks, and were these
procedures being followed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure suitable precautions are always taken when flammable static accumulator cargoes are loaded into
non-inerted tanks.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review the company procedures for loading flammable static accumulator
cargoes into non-inerted tanks.
• Observe loading taking place, if possible.
• Review cargo log books and records to verify compliance with company procedures.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the officer in charge of cargo operations to verify their familiarity with company procedures for
loading flammable static accumulator cargoes into non-inerted tanks.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for loading flammable static accumulator cargoes into non-inerted tanks.
• Cargo log books and records.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for loading flammable static accumulator cargoes into non-inerted tanks
which described:
o The identification of flammable static accumulator cargoes.
o The precautions to be taken against hazards from static electricity when loading these cargoes.
• The officer in charge of cargo operations was not familiar with the company procedures for loading
flammable static accumulator cargoes into non-inerted tanks.
• A flammable static accumulator cargo was loaded into a non-inert tank with:
o An initial rate of more than 1 m/sec at the individual tank inlets.
o An initial rate of less than 1 m/sec at the individual tank inlets, but for shorter than the required
period:
 30minutes or the time taken to load twice the content of the shore pipeline content
whichever is the lesser.
 But which must include the time to fill the tank to a depth equal to twice the diameter of the
filling pipe.
o A bulk rate of more than 1 m/sec when the cargo was not “clean”.
• A flammable static accumulator cargo was loaded into a non-inert tank:
o Over the top.
o In such a way to produce splash filling.
• Upon completion of loading a flammable static accumulator, cargo lines were blown using compressed air.
• A low volatility static accumulator cargo was loaded into an uncleaned non-inerted tank that had previously
contained a high volatility cargo, without following the precautions to be taken against hazards from static
electricity.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
