## Question 8.3.17

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.17

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the use,
inspection and testing of manifold reducers, spool pieces and other portable pipework,
and were these items in satisfactory condition and properly fitted when in use?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
OCIMF/CDI: Recommendations for Oil and Chemical Tanker Manifolds and Associated Equipment
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 33.
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure manifold reducers, spool pieces and other items of portable pipework meet the required pressure
rating for the cargo transfer system and will not leak at the flange face when used.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the use, inspection and testing of manifold
reducers, spool pieces and other portable pipework.
• Review the inventory of manifold reducers, spool pieces and other portable pipework.
• Review the records of inspection and testing of manifold reducers, spool pieces and other portable
pipework.
• During the inspection, observe the disposition and visual condition of the manifold reducers, spool pieces
and other portable pipework.
• Where necessary, compare the observed condition with the records of inspection and testing of manifold
reducers, spool pieces and other portable pipework.
• Request that the blanks or covers are removed from at least one stored reducer or spool piece and verify
that the presentation flanges were undamaged and free from pitting or scoring.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the use, inspection and testing of manifold reducers, spool pieces and other
portable pipework.
• The inventory of manifold reducers, spool pieces and other portable pipework.
• Records of the inspection and pressure testing of manifold reducers, spool pieces and other portable
pipework.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the use, inspection and testing of manifold reducers, spool pieces
and other portable pipework that included guidance on:
o The correct use of manifold reducers, spool pieces and other portable pipework.
o Provision of test certification.
o Suitable storage arrangements, including the protection of flange faces.
o Regular inspection.
o Pressure testing at least annually.
o Records to be maintained of inspections and tests.
• There was no inventory of manifold reducers, spool pieces and other portable pipework.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the use, inspection and testing
of manifold reducers, spool pieces and other portable pipework.
• Test certification was not available for a manifold reducer, spool piece or other item of portable pipework.
• There were no records available for the inspection and testing of manifold reducers, spool pieces and other
portable pipework as required by company procedures.
• Inspection of the manifold reducers, spool pieces and other portable pipework indicated that the required
inspections and tests had either not been performed or were ineffective.
• A manifold reducer, spool piece or other item of portable pipework:
o Had not been pressure tested to 100% MAWP within the last 12 months.
o Was not marked with the date and pressure of the last test.
o Did not have the same certified rating (MAWP) as the fixed manifold piping to which it was
connected.
• The position of handles or lugs on reducers in use during cargo transfer operations interfered with quick
acting coupling devices or the bolting of flanges.
• More than one spool piece or reducer was fitted between the fixed manifold flange and the flange presented
for connection.
• The flange face of a manifold reducer, spool piece or other item of portable pipework was visibly damaged,
corroded or in an unsatisfactory condition.
• Where a long reducer or spool piece was in use, it was not properly supported to prevent undue stress.
(applicable to chemical tankers only)
• A manifold reducer, spool piece or other item of portable pipework in use for cargo transfer at the time of the
inspection was defective in any respect.
• A manifold reducer, spool piece or other item of portable pipework in use for cargo transfer at the time of the
inspection had been repaired but there was no evidence that it had been pressure tested on completion of
the repairs.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
