## Question 8.3.4

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
maintenance, testing and setting of the cargo tank high-level and high-high-level alarms,
and were these alarm systems fully operational and properly set?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 46.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
IMO: IBC Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that cargo tank high-level and high-high-level alarms are always fully operational, properly set and
used during all cargo loading, discharging and transfer operations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the maintenance, setting and testing of the
cargo tank high-level and high-high-level alarm systems.
• Review the records of testing and maintenance of the cargo tank high-level and high-high-level alarm
systems.
• Inspect the alarm indicator panels in the cargo control room or position and verify:
o The panel was switched on with all cargo tanks being monitored.
o The audible and visible alarms were operational.
• Inspect the alarm equipment on deck including the audible and visible alarm fittings.
• If safe to do so, request that the accompanying officer demonstrates the operation of the audible and visible
alarms on the deck area by the test activation of a high-high-level alarm on a randomly selected cargo tank.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The company procedures for the maintenance, setting and testing of the cargo tank high-level and
high-high-level alarm systems.
o The circumstances under which the cargo tank high-level and high-high-level alarm systems or
individual tanks alarms may be isolated and the safeguards to ensure they were always in
operation during cargo transfer operations.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the maintenance, setting and testing of the cargo tank high-level and high-
high-level alarm systems.
• Records of the maintenance, testing and setting of the cargo tank high-level and high-high-level alarm
systems.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the maintenance, testing and setting of the cargo tank high-level
and high-high-level alarm systems.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with:
o The company procedures for the maintenance, testing and setting of the cargo tank high-level and
high-high-level alarm systems.
o The circumstances under which the cargo tank high-level and high-high-level alarm systems or
individual cargo tank alarms may be isolated and the safeguards to ensure they were always in
operation during cargo transfer operations.
• The company procedures for the maintenance, testing and setting of the cargo tank high-level and high-
high-level alarm systems did not include:
o The mandatory use of the alarms during all loading, discharging and transfer operations.
o Set points for all alarms.
o Testing procedures and frequency.
o Records of testing and maintenance to be kept.
o Guidance on the use of shipboard automatic closing valves, if fitted.
o Procedure, based on risk assessment, to enable continued cargo loading, discharge or transfer
operations in the event of a failure of the cargo tank high-level or high-high-level alarm system or a
single alarm for an individual cargo tank.
• High-level and/or high-high-level alarms were not in operation at the time of inspection, during loading,
discharging or transfer operations.
• High-level alarms were not fitted.
• High-high-level alarms were not fitted.
• High-level and high-high-level alarms were not independent of each other.
• High-high-level alarms were not independent of the fixed tank gauging system.
• High-level alarms were set at or above the high-high-level alarm activation point.
• High-level and high-high-level alarm indicator panels etc. were not clearly identified as such.
• High-level and/or high-high-level alarm audible and/or visible alarms were not operational in the cargo
control room or on deck.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• High-high-level alarms were not set at a level to allow the person in charge of transfer operations to stop the
cargo transfer before the tank overflows (typically 98% of the tank capacity).
• High-level and/or high-high-level alarms had not been regularly tested in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions.
• In a chemical ship, the:
o High-level alarms were not independent of the fixed gauging system.
o High-high-level alarms did not provide an agreed signal for sequential shutdown of onshore pumps
and/or valves and ship’s valves. (the signal may be dependent on operator intervention)
o Shipboard automatic closing valves were in use without the specific approval of the flag sate and or
port state authority.
• The high-level and/or high-high-level alarms were permanently silenced or inhibited
• The high-level and/or high-high-level alarms were defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
