## Question 8.3.10

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.10

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
inspection, testing and operation of the vapour collection system, and was this
equipment in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: MARPOL
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
IMO: MSC/Circ.585 Standards for vapour emission control systems

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vapour collection system is in satisfactory condition and operated correctly when
required.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the inspection, testing and operation of the
vapour collection system.
• Review, if available, the records of cargo operations, including tank pressures, where the vapour control
system had been used.
• Review, where necessary, vapour collection system training/familiarisation records.
• During the deck inspection:
o Observe the operation, condition and configuration of the vapour collection system.
o Where provided on chemical tankers, inspect any vapour hoses used for direct connection at the
cargo tank.
• Verify the satisfactory operation of the visible and audible high- and low-pressure alarms at the cargo control
room or position.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the inspection,
testing and operation of the vapour collection system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the inspection, testing and operation of the vapour collection system.
• The vapour collection system manual.
• Cargo operations records and checklists relating to the last occasion the vapour collection system was used.
• The maintenance and testing records for any vapour hoses provided on chemical tankers in accordance with
IMO MSC/Circ.585 2.2.1.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the inspection, testing and operation of the vapour collection system
which included:
o A line diagram of the tanker’s vapour collection piping indicating the locations and purpose of all
control and safety devices.
o The initial transfer rate
o The maximum allowable transfer rate as limited by the venting capacity of the pressure or vacuum
relief valves, or any other factor which would limit the transfer rate.
o The maximum pressure drop in the vessel’s vapour collection system for various transfer rates.
o The relief settings of each pressure and vacuum valve.
o Pre-transfer procedures, including tests of P/V valves, tank level gauges and alarms, and high- and
low-pressure alarms.
o Procedures to be followed in the event of a fault during vapour collection operations.
o Training and familiarisation requirements.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the inspection, testing and
operation of the vapour collection system.
• The pressure sensing device in the main vapour collection line was inoperative.
• The visible and audible high- and low-pressure alarms at the cargo control room or position were defective
in any respect.
• The high- and low-pressure alarms were not set as required by company procedures.
• There was no evidence that the person(s) in charge of transfer operations had received suitable
training/familiarisation covering the particular system installed on the tanker.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The vapour collection system was not approved by the Flag State or recognised organisation (such as a
class society).
• Where vapour hoses were provided onboard chemical tankers in accordance with IMO MSC/Circ.585 2.2.1,
there was no evidence of proper maintenance and testing
• The vapour collection system was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
