## Question 8.3.1

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the purpose, operation and testing of the
inert gas generator, and had the system been operated and maintained in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions and company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: Inert Gas Systems

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the inert gas generator always delivers inert gas in accordance with its design criteria.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and
maintenance of the vessel’s inert gas system which included the:
o Inert gas generator
o Gas regulating valve.
• Inspect the inert gas plant and verify that:
o Where the inert gas systems and generator was contained in an enclosed room or space, safe
entry procedures were posted at each entrance to the room.
o Each component of the inert gas system and generator was in good order and free of gas or liquid
leaks.
o The inert gas pipelines and scrubber seawater lines were free of pinholes or temporary repairs.
o Blowers were free of excessive vibration.
o If only one blower was provided, there were sufficient spare parts available for the blower and
prime mover.
o The actuators for the gas regulating valve and remote operated isolation valves were operating
automatically/remotely.
o Local or remote temperature or pressure sensing devices were connected and indicating
reasonable values.
o If the inert gas system and generator was not located in the machinery spaces, the compartment
was provided with adequate positive-pressure-type mechanical ventilation.
• Where necessary, review the records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas generator and
system and verify that scheduled inspections and maintenance on the equipment had taken place.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation, inspection, testing
and maintenance of the inert gas system including the:
o Inert gas generator
o Gas regulating valve

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the inert gas system and
inert gas generator.
• The manufacturer's instruction and maintenance manual for the inert gas generator and inert gas system.
• The records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas generator and inert gas system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the vessel’s
inert gas system which included the:
o Inert gas generator
o Gas regulating valve
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance
and testing of the vessel’s inert gas system.
• Where the inert gas plant was contained in an enclosed room or space, there were no safe entry procedures
posted at each entrance to the room.
• The records of inspection and maintenance of the inert gas plant were missing or incomplete.
• The gas regulating valve or remote controlled isolation valves were being operated on local control.
• Local or remote temperature or pressure sensing devices were disconnected or defective.
• There were significant gas or liquid leaks from the inert gas plant.
• Blower(s) were suffering excessive vibration.
• Where only one blower was provided, there were insufficient spare parts available for the blower and prime
mover.
• Where the inert gas generator was not located in the machinery spaces the compartment was not provided
with adequate positive-pressure-type mechanical ventilation.
• The inert gas plant was defective in any respect.
Where the entry procedures posted at the entrance(s) to the space or spaces containing the inert gas system were
not in alignment with the enclosed space entry procedure in the SMS or, entry into a space containing the inert gas
system was authorised during the inspection without full compliance with the enclosed space entry procedure, make
an observation under question 5.5.1.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
