## Question 8.3.9

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.9

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
inspection and testing of cargo, vapour and inert gas pipelines, and were records
available for these activities?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Pumproom, Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 33.
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 46.
USCG: Marine Safety Manual
Vol. II: Materiel Inspection

---

### **Objective**
To ensure cargo, vapour and inert gas pipelines are regularly examined, and pressure tested when required,
to verify their condition.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the inspection and testing of cargo, vapour
and inert gas pipelines.
• Review the records of the inspection and testing of cargo, vapour and inert gas pipelines and verify that:
o The MAWP of the cargo transfer system had been determined and documented.
o Each pipeline had been visually inspected in accordance with the company procedure.
o Each cargo system pipeline had been hydrostatically pressure tested to 100% of MAWP annually.
o Each cargo system pipeline had been hydrostatically pressure tested to 150% of MAWP at least
twice in the previous five years.
• During the inspection, observe the visual condition of the cargo, vapour and inert gas pipelines.
• Where necessary, compare the observed condition of the pipelines with the records of the inspection and
testing of cargo, vapour and inert gas pipelines.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The items to pay attention to when conducting a visual inspection of the cargo, vapour or inert gas
pipelines.
o How and when the previous hydrostatic pressure test of the cargo system pipelines had been
conducted.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the inspection and testing of cargo, vapour and inert gas pipelines.
• The determination of the MAWP of the cargo pipeline system.
• Records of the inspection and testing of cargo, vapour and inert gas pipelines.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the inspection and testing of cargo, vapour and inert gas pipelines
that included:
o The frequency of visual external examinations
o The frequency of hydrostatic pressure testing of cargo transfer systems.
o The requirement to hydrostatically pressure test a cargo transfer system after repairs, modifications
or sectional replacement.
o Records to be maintained of inspections and tests.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the inspection and testing of
cargo, vapour and inert gas pipelines.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The MAWP of the cargo transfer system had not been determined and documented.
• The determination of the MAWP of the cargo transfer system was inconsistent with the ship's drawings or
cargo pump performance curves.
• The cargo transfer system had not been hydrostatically pressure tested to 100% MAWP within the last 12
months.
• There was evidence that cargo system piping had undergone repairs, modifications or sectional replacement
that would potentially affect its integrity since the last hydrostatic test without being retested upon completion
of the work.
• The cargo transfer system had not been hydrostatically pressure tested to at least 150% MAWP at least
twice within any five-year period.
• The cargo transfer system pressure testing was performed using compressed air or inert gas.
• Cargo system pipelines were not marked with the date and pressure of the last test.
• Cargo, vapour or inert gas pipelines had not been inspected and/or tested as required by company
procedures.
• There were no records of the inspection and testing of cargo, vapour and/or inert gas lines as required by
company procedures.
• Inspection of the cargo, vapour and/or inert gas pipelines indicated that the required inspections and tests
had either not been performed or were ineffective.
• The visual inspection of the cargo system, vapour or inert gas pipelines determined that the pipelines or any
of their components were in an unsatisfactory condition.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
