## Question 8.3.21

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.21

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedure for cargo
heating, and was the cargo heating system in satisfactory condition and tested and used
in accordance with the company procedure?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IBC Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure cargo heating is always conducted in accordance with international regulations, industry
guidance and within the design criteria of the vessel and its fittings.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures describing the operation, testing and
maintenance of the cargo heating system.
• Inspect the cargo heating system including the:
o Heating coil manifolds and associated pipework, where fitted.
o Deck mounted heat exchangers and associated pipe work, where fitted.
o Observation tank or other means for monitoring the system return.
o Remote temperature indication and alarm system, if fitted.
• Sight, and where necessary review, the cargo heating records.
• Where necessary review the records of the inspection and testing of the cargo heating system.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with company procedures describing the
operation, testing and maintenance of the cargo heating system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures describing the operation, testing and maintenance of the cargo heating system.
• The vessel’s operation manuals, where provided.
• The records of cargo heating system usage.
• The daily temperature records for heated cargo.
• Records of the inspection and testing of the cargo heating system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures describing the operation, testing and maintenance of the cargo heating
system.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures describing the operation, testing
and maintenance of the cargo heating system including any cargo temperature limits.
• The cargo heating system had not been operated and/or tested in compliance with company procedures.
• There were no records of the cargo heating system testing.
• There were no records of cargo heating operations.
• The cargo heating system had not been isolated where required in compliance with company procedures.
• There were no records of the regular monitoring of the cargo heating system return to detect leakage.
• Inspection of the observation tank or hot well indicated there was significant leakage in the cargo heating
system.
• There were leaks of heating medium from the associated pipework on deck or in the engine room.
• One or more temperature sensors in the remote temperature indicating system were defective.
• Cargo heating records indicated cargo temperature limits had been exceeded.
• There was significant corrosion, pitting, soft patches and/or other temporary repairs on the pipework or
components of the heating system.
• The cargo heating system was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
