## Question 8.3.13

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.13

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
operation of the primary and secondary cargo tank venting systems in accordance with
SOLAS, and were these systems correctly set?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IBC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure cargo tanks are always protected from over or under pressurisation in the event of inappropriate
use of the ventilation system or a failure of a primary protection device.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation of the primary and secondary
cargo tank venting systems.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Review the primary and secondary venting arrangements and verify they comply with SOLAS (and the
HVPQ).
• Where an electronic pressure/vacuum monitoring system is provided:
o Verify the satisfactory operation of the system.
o Verify that the alarms are set to operate at the correct value.
o Review records of tests and calibration of the pressure sensors.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The company procedures for the operation of the primary and secondary cargo tank venting
systems.
o The required settings for pressure alarms, where fitted.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the operation of the primary and secondary cargo tank venting systems.
• Ship’s drawings of the cargo tank venting arrangements.
• Cargo handling manual(s).
• Records of tests and calibration of the pressure sensors, where fitted.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation of the primary and secondary cargo tank venting
systems in accordance with SOLAS which described:
o The primary and secondary system for each anticipated cargo tank/group configuration.
o The associated settings of the pressure/vacuum sensor alarms, where fitted.
o Maintenance, test and calibration procedures for the cargo tank pressure/vacuum monitoring
system per the manufacturer’s instructions.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation of the primary and
secondary cargo tank venting systems in accordance with SOLAS.
• The primary and secondary venting arrangements were not as described in the HVPQ and/or PIQ.
• The means of providing ‘secondary means of allowing full flow relief’ did not comply with the SOLAS
requirements.
• Cargo tanks were fitted with vapour isolating valves which might be damaged or inadvertently closed but
were not fitted with either full-flow P/V valves or a pressure/vacuum monitoring system.
• Cargo tanks were fitted with vapour isolating valves which would be intentionally closed for vapour
segregation purposes but were not fitted with either two full flow P/V valves or a P/V valve and a
pressure/vacuum monitoring system on the cargo tank side of the cargo tank vapour isolating valve.
• On a chemical carrier, cargo tanks were fitted with an independent P/V valve but there was no secondary
protection in the form of a second full flow P/V valve or a pressure/vacuum monitoring system.
• The cargo tank pressure/vacuum monitoring system alarms were not set to operate at the correct value.
• One or more cargo tank pressure sensors were not operational.
• One or more cargo tank pressure sensors appeared to be inaccurate.
• The cargo tank pressure/vacuum monitoring system was defective in any respect.
• There were no records of tests and/or calibration of the cargo tank pressure/vacuum monitoring system per
the manufacturer’s instructions.
In the circumstances that the ‘secondary means of allowing full flow relief’ did not comply with the requirements of
SOLAS, the supporting comment should describe why the requirements were not met.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
