## Question 8.3.7

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.7

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the purpose, operation and calibration of
the inert gas system fixed oxygen analyser, and had the equipment been operated,
maintained and calibrated in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and
company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room, Cargo Control Room, Engine Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: FSS Code
IMO: Inert Gas Systems

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the inert gas system always delivers inert gas with an oxygen content of not more than 5% by
volume to the cargo tanks at any rate of flow.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and
maintenance of the vessel’s inert gas system which included the fixed oxygen analyser.
• Inspect the fixed oxygen analyser including the fixed zero and/or span calibration arrangements.
• Verify that the local reading at the fixed oxygen analyser agrees with the remote indications of the oxygen
content in the cargo control room or station and the machinery space control room.
• Review the calibration records of the fixed oxygen analyser and verify that it had been calibrated not more
than 24 hours before being used for each cargo, purging or inerting operation.
• Where necessary review the records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas system and
verify that scheduled inspections and maintenance on the equipment had taken place.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation and testing of the
fixed oxygen analyser including the:
o Method and frequency of calibration.
o Actions to be taken in the event of a failure of the fixed oxygen analyser.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the inert gas system.
• The records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas system.
• The manufacturer’s instruction and maintenance manual for the fixed oxygen analyser
• The calibration records for the fixed oxygen analyser.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the vessel’s
inert gas system which included the fixed oxygen analyser.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose, operation, inspection, testing and maintenance
of the fixed oxygen analyser including the:
o Method and frequency of calibration.
o Actions to be taken in the event of a failure of the fixed analyser.
• The records of inspection and maintenance of the inert gas plant were missing or incomplete.
• The fixed oxygen analyser had not been:
o Operated, maintained and calibrated in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and
company procedures.
o Calibrated within 24 hours prior to starting the inert gas system for each cargo, purging or inerting
operation.
• The zero and/or span gas used to calibrate the fixed oxygen analyser was unsuitable, out of date or not
available.
• There were no clear instructions provided for operating, calibrating and testing the fixed oxygen analyser in
the vicinity of the equipment.
• The fixed oxygen analyser was defective in any respect.
If the local reading at the fixed oxygen analyser did not agree with the remote indications of the oxygen content in the
cargo control room or station and the machinery space control room, an observation should be made under question
