## Question 8.3.8

**Paragraph Number:**
8.3.8

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and ratings familiar with the cargo system Emergency
Shutdown (ESD) system, where fitted, and/or the cargo pump emergency stop controls,
and was there evidence that the systems and equipment had been tested in accordance
with company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Deck Rating, Cargo Control Room, Pumproom, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 33.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the cargo handling system or individual cargo pumps will be brought to a safe, static
condition, either automatically or manually, in abnormal circumstances.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the procedures which described the operation and testing of ESD
systems and/or cargo pump emergency stop controls.
• Review the most recent records for the testing of:
o The ESD system, where fitted.
o The automated cargo pump shut down systems and associated sensors, where fitted.
o The individual cargo pump emergency stop controls from each location provided.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The cargo pump shutdown system for each pump prior to use.
Interview a deck rating to verify their familiarity with:
• The circumstances in which the cargo pump emergency stop control should be activated.
• The locations of the cargo pump emergency stop controls.
• The actions that should be taken once the cargo pump emergency stop control had been activated.
• The danger of shutting a manifold valve against the flow while loading/discharging.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which described the operation and testing of the ESD, where fitted, the cargo
pump automated shutdown, the cargo pump emergency stop controls and the cargo pump emergency stop
system.
• The testing records for the ESD, where fitted, the cargo pump automated shutdown, the cargo pump
emergency stop controls and the cargo pump emergency stop system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which described the testing and operation of cargo system:
o Emergency shutdown systems.
o Automated cargo pump shutdown systems and associated sensors.
o Cargo pump emergency stop controls.
• The testing of the ESD, automated shutdown or cargo pump emergency stop controls and systems had not
been tested in accordance with the company procedure.
• The ESD system, automated cargo pump shutdown or cargo pump emergency stop controls or systems
were defective in any respect.
• The manual ESD system control or the cargo pump emergency stop controls were not clearly marked and
ready for immediate use.
• Access to a manual ESD system control or cargo pump emergency stop control was obstructed.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the ESD system, where fitted.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with what abnormal or alarm conditions could cause a cargo pump
to shut down automatically.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure for the testing of the ESD, automated
cargo pump shutdown and/or the testing of the cargo pump emergency stop controls.
• An interviewed deck rating was unfamiliar with the location and operation of the cargo pump emergency stop
controls, the circumstances in which they should be activated or the actions to take after the emergency stop
control had been activated.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
