## Question 8.4.1

**Paragraph Number:**
8.4.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures that addressed
the carriage of inhibited cargoes, and had these procedures been followed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IGC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that inhibited cargoes are carried safely and in compliance with company procedures and the IGC
Code.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures that addressed the carriage of inhibited
cargoes.
• Review cargo operation logbooks and records, inhibited cargo certificates and contingency plans in the
event of uncontrolled polymerisation.
• Interview the officer responsible for cargo planning to verify their familiarity with company procedures that
addressed the carriage of inhibited cargoes.
Where the vessel had not carried any inhibited cargoes during the previous six months, make a comment in the
Process response tool noting the last occasion an inhibited cargo was carried. Focus on the balance of the human
and procedural aspects of the guidance.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures that address the carriage of inhibited cargoes.
• Inhibited cargo certificates.
• Inert gas logs.
• Bridge and cargo log books.
• Cargo tank temperature records relating to inhibited cargoes.
• Cargo load and discharge plans relating to inhibited cargoes.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Contingency plans in the event of uncontrolled polymerisation of an inhibited cargo.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures that addressed the carriage of inhibited cargoes and included guidance
on:
o Inhibited cargo certificates.
o Temperature monitoring of inhibited cargoes.
o Inerting of inhibited cargoes.
o Draining/purging of the reliquefaction system after shut-down.
o The use of anti-freeze with inhibited cargoes.
o The exclusion of water from the cargo system.
o Recirculation of cargo to ensure a uniform concentration of inhibitor.
o Adding inhibitor to a cargo in transit.
o The possible toxicity of inhibitors
o Contingency planning for uncontrolled polymerisation.
• The officer responsible for cargo planning was not familiar with the company procedures that addressed the
carriage of inhibited cargoes.
• There was no certificate on board for an inhibited cargo or the certificate did not contain the minimum
information required.
• The stated duration of effectiveness of the inhibitor had expired prior to discharge.
• Temperatures of an inhibited cargo had not been monitored during the voyage on at least a daily basis, or
as recommended by the cargo manufacturer.
• There was no contingency plan in the event of uncontrolled polymerisation and a rapid rise in temperature of
an inhibited cargo.
• There were no records available to confirm that the oxygen in the inert gas supply into the tanks was less
than 0.1% by volume where polymerization of vinyl chloride had been prevented by inert gas when no
inhibitor has been added or inhibitor concentration was insufficient.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
