## Question 8.4.2

**Paragraph Number:**
8.4.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for carrying out
cargo sampling operations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1625 Unified Interpretation of the IGC Code.
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition
SIGTTO: Liquefied Petroleum Gas Sampling Procedures First Edition 2010

---

### **Objective**
To ensure LPG cargo sampling operations are performed safely.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for performing cargo sampling operations.
• Observe any sampling operations taking place during the course of the inspection.
• Inspect sampling equipment provided onboard and sampling connections to verify compatibility.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The company procedures for performing cargo sampling operations.
o The PPE and safety precautions for taking liquid and/or gas samples.
o The sampling equipment carried onboard the vessel.
o The sampling connections and locations for taking liquid and/or gas samples.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for performing cargo sampling operations.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for performing cargo sampling operations for all cargoes included on
the vessel’s Certificate of Fitness which required that:
o Sampling must be authorised and directly supervised by a responsible officer and carried out in a
safe manner, regardless of who is actually performing the sampling operation.
o Only fully compatible sampling equipment, connected properly, is used for the task.
o Venting to atmosphere is minimised during sampling.
o Purging, venting or ullaging of sample containers must be carried out in a safe location.
o Only ‘closed loop’ equipment is used when toxic products are being sampled.
o The correct PPE is available and used.
o Everyone involved in sampling operations is properly informed of the nature of the cargo being
handled and the precautions to be observed.
o Sampling connections are clearly marked.
o Sampling connections are capped or blanked when not in use.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for performing cargo sampling
operations.
• Sampling was taking place without the presence of a responsible officer.
• Connections to cargo piping systems for taking cargo liquid samples were not clearly marked.
• There was evidence that connections used for control of atmosphere in cargo tanks during inerting or
gassing up were being used as cargo sampling connections.
• A liquid sampling arrangement was not provided with a double valve arrangement.
• Neither of the valves on a liquid sampling arrangement were of the ‘multi turn’ type.
• Sampling equipment in use was not fully compatible with the sampling connections.
• Sampling equipment was not properly connected, allowing release of cargo vapour.
• An ‘open loop’ sampling system was being used to sample a toxic cargo.
• Purging, venting or ullaging of sample containers was being carried out in an unsafe location.
• Personnel involved in sampling operations were not wearing the required PPE.
• Personnel sampling a toxic cargo were not wearing SCBA.
• Electrical equipment used when taking samples was not of the certified safe type.
• Plastic vapour sample bags were being used for liquid samples.
• Personnel involved in sampling operations had not been properly informed of the nature of the cargo being
handled and the precautions to be observed.
• Sample connection valves used during sampling operations were inadequately secured on completion.
• A sample connection was not capped or blanked to prevent any leakage when the connection was not in
use.
• Sample containers that were not free of cargo vapour were stored in an unventilated space.
• A sampling arrangement was defective in any respect.
• Sampling equipment and sampling connections were incompatible.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
