## Question 8.4.6

**Paragraph Number:**
8.4.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
inspection and maintenance of the cargo tank insulation, and was the insulation reported
to be in good condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.
IACS: Requirements Concerning Gas Tankers
SIGTTO: Liquefied Gas Fire Hazard Management. First Edition 2004.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the cargo tank insulation is properly inspected and maintained.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review the company procedures for the inspection and maintenance of the
cargo tank insulation.
• Review the:
o Records of inspection of the cargo tank insulation.
o Records of maintenance and repair of the cargo tank insulation.
• Where defects to the cargo tank insulation had been noted within an inspection report, verify that a defect
report had been generated to follow up with the required corrective actions.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the inspection
and maintenance of the cargo tank insulation.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the inspection and maintenance of the cargo tank insulation.
• Records of inspection of the cargo tank insulation.
• Records of maintenance and repair of the cargo tank insulation.
• Open defect reports for any defects to the cargo tank insulation.
• The enclosed space entry records and permits for recent cargo tank insulation inspections.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the inspection and maintenance of the cargo tank insulation which
included guidance on:
o Scope and frequency of inspections.
o Maintenance procedures.
o Records to be kept of inspections and maintenance.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Fire safety precautions to be taken when undertaking maintenance or repair work in the vicinity of
cargo tank insulation.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the inspection and maintenance
of the cargo tank insulation.
• There were no records of the inspection, maintenance, or repair of the cargo tank insulation.
• Inspections of cargo tank insulation had not taken place as required by company procedures.
• Where a defect to the cargo tank insulation had been noted within an inspection report, no defect report had
been generated to follow up with the required corrective actions (give details of defect).
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
