## Question 8.4.3

**Paragraph Number:**
8.4.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for identifying
and segregating incompatible cargoes and refrigerants during cargo stowage planning,
and had these procedures been followed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Compressor Room, Main Deck
Publications
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 46.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure cargo stowage is carefully planned to avoid the co-mingling of incompatible cargoes and
refrigerants.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and where necessary, review the company procedures for identifying and segregating incompatible
cargoes and refrigerants during cargo stowage planning.
• Sight and where necessary, review the compatibility chart in use and any other available data.
• Review current and previous cargo stowage plans and supporting documents to verify compliance with
company procedures.
• During the course of the inspection, sight any operational means of segregation identified in the cargo
stowage plan such as spool pieces or spectacle flanges.
• Interview the officer responsible for cargo stowage planning to verify their familiarity with:
o The company procedures for identifying and segregating incompatible cargoes and refrigerants.
o The use of the compatibility chart and any other data provided on board.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for identifying and segregating incompatible cargoes and refrigerants during cargo
stowage planning.
• Current and previous cargo stowage plans.
• Cargo log book.
• Risk assessments or checklists that identify systems and processes that require segregation.
• Compatibility charts.
• Cargo System Operation Manual.
• Relevant ship’s drawings showing acceptable segregation arrangements.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for cargo stowage planning that included the:
o Identification of incompatible cargoes and refrigerants using all available data.
o Means of identifying and documenting locations and processes where segregation is necessary.
o Means of segregation of incompatible cargoes and refrigerants.
• The officer responsible for cargo stowage planning was not familiar with company procedures for identifying
and segregating incompatible cargoes and refrigerants.
• The officer responsible for cargo stowage planning was not familiar with the use of the compatibility chart
provided on board.
• There was no compatibility chart issued by a recognised body available on board.
• Two incompatible cargoes had been stowed adjacent to each other or in a configuration that did not provide
positive segregation.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Operational means of segregation were observed to be not as indicated in the cargo stowage plan.
• The cargo stowage plan did not identify when care should be taken to avoid the co-mingling of non-
compatible cargoes, which cargoes are involved, and the means of segregation.
• A cargo log book entry was not made of the action taken to isolate the pipeline systems prior to the loading
of incompatible cargoes.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
