## Question 8.4.5

**Paragraph Number:**
8.4.5

---

### **Question**
Were there sufficient escape sets as required by the IGC Code for everyone on
board, and did the sets provide suitable respiratory and eye protection?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Interview - Rating, Internal Accommodation
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IGC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that everyone on board is provided with a suitable emergency escape set to exit a hazardous
atmosphere in case of an emergency.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the inspection and maintenance records for the EEBDs contained within the onboard maintenance
plan.
• Inspect two escape sets at random.
• Interview a rating at random to verify their familiarity with the locations, purpose and operation of the escape
sets provided.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The inspection and maintenance records for the EEBDs contained within the onboard maintenance plan.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The escape sets provided:
o Did not have a design duration of at least 15 minutes.
o Were not included in the company procedures for the use and maintenance of EEBDs and the
onboard maintenance plan.
o Used filter-type respiratory protection.
o Did not provide suitable eye protection.
o Were not suitably marked as not to be used for fire-fighting or cargo-handling purposes.
o Were not in addition to the EEBDs required by SOLAS to be located in the accommodation and
machinery spaces.
• An escape set:
o Was not fully charged.
o Had not been inspected and maintained in accordance with the onboard maintenance plan.
o Had been used for fire-fighting or cargo-handling purposes.
o Had been used as the primary means for entering spaces or compartments with unsafe
atmospheres.
• There were insufficient escape sets for everyone on board, including any contractors, supernumeraries,
visitors etc. while underway.
• An interviewed rating was not familiar with the locations, purpose and operation of the escape sets provided.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
