## Question 8.4.4

**Paragraph Number:**
8.4.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the safe
carriage of propylene oxide (PO), ethylene oxide (EO) and PO-EO mixtures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Compressor Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the safe carriage of propylene oxide (PO), ethylene oxide (EO) and PO-EO mixtures.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the safe carriage of propylene oxide (PO),
ethylene oxide (EO) and PO-EO mixtures.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Review the approved cargo handling plans and the P&A Manual.
• If the vessel has loaded propylene oxide (PO), ethylene oxide (EO) or PO-EO mixtures within the last 12
months, review:
o Segregation certification issued by the appropriate shore authority prior to loading.
o Records of the last 3 cargoes carried prior to the PO/EO.
o Cargo tank inspection records for tanks used for PO/EO.
o Records of tank cleaning prior to loading PO/EO.
o Records of monitoring cargo tank pressure and oxygen content.
o Records of monitoring hold spaces for PO/EO leakage and oxygen during the voyage.
• If the vessel is carrying propylene oxide (PO), ethylene oxide (EO) or PO-EO mixtures at the time of the
inspection:
o Inspect the seals on the blanks in the pipeline system.
o Verify the water-spray system is fully operational and ready for immediate use.
• Interview the officer responsible for cargo operations to verify their familiarity with the company procedures
for the safe carriage of propylene oxide (PO), ethylene oxide (EO) and PO-EO mixtures.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the safe carriage of propylene oxide (PO), ethylene oxide (EO) and PO-EO
mixtures.
• Approved cargo handling plans.
• P&A Manual.
• The Cargo System Operation Manual, where provided.
• Segregation certification issued by the appropriate shore authority prior to loading.
• Records of the last 3 cargoes carried prior to the PO/EO.
• Cargo tank inspection records for tanks used for PO/EO.
• Records of tank cleaning prior to loading PO/EO.
• Records of monitoring cargo tank pressure and oxygen content.
• Records of monitoring hold spaces for PO/EO leakage and oxygen during the voyage.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the safe carriage of propylene oxide (PO), ethylene oxide (EO) and
PO-EO mixtures.
• The officer in charge of cargo operations was not familiar with the company procedures for the safe carriage
of propylene oxide (PO), ethylene oxide (EO) and PO-EO mixtures including:
o Tank preparation and inspection, including compatibility with previous cargoes.
o Separation of pipeline systems and compressors, including sealing and certification.
o Pressure relief valve (PRV) settings.
o Nitrogen purging and padding requirements.
o Cargo discharge methods.
o Vapour return requirements.
o Cargo temperature control.
o Monitoring/inerting of hold spaces.
o Sampling arrangements.
o Emergency procedures, including jettisoning ethylene oxide.
• The vessel was handling PO/EO cargoes but:
o These cargoes were not included on the Certificate of Fitness or NLS certificate, and/or
o There was no approved cargo handling plan available.
o There was no P&A Manual on board.
• There was no segregation certification on board issued by the appropriate shore authority prior to loading
propylene oxide (PO), ethylene oxide (EO) or PO-EO mixtures.
• Ethylene oxide was being carried in deck tanks.
• While the vessel was handling PO/EO cargo, blanks were not sealed as required.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• During discharge of PO/EO the tank pressure was not maintained above 0.007 MPa gauge.
• The vessel’s cargo hoses used for PO/EO transfer were not correctly marked with “FOR ALKYLENE OXIDE
TRANSFER ONLY”.
• There were no records to show that the hold spaces were being monitored for PO/EO leakage and/or
oxygen content.
• Where hold spaces were required to be inerted, oxygen content was more than 2%.
• Where required to be fitted, the cargo tanks were not fitted with a cooling system to maintain the cargo
temperature below the reference temperature.
• The cargo loading plan did not document the maximum allowable loading limits for each tank corresponding
to the loading temperature.
• The water spray system was not operational or defective in any respect.
• There was no evidence that the gaskets in use were constructed of materials which were resistant to the
cargo.
• There was no jettison equipment available on board.
If propylene oxide (PO), ethylene oxide (EO) or PO-EO mixtures are not included on the vessel’s Certificate of
Fitness, select “Not Answerable” in each of the response tools then select "Not Applicable - as instructed by question
guidance".
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
