## Question 8.4.7

**Paragraph Number:**
8.4.7

---

### **Question**
Were the vent outlets from the cargo containment system fitted with the correct
protection screen or flame screen required for the cargo being carried, and were the
screens in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the correct protection or flame screens are fitted to vent outlets in accordance with the cargo
being carried, and that these screens are in satisfactory condition.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Verify from cargo records and/or maintenance plans that vent outlets from the cargo containment system are
fitted with the correct flame screen or protection screen for the cargo being carried, and that these are in
satisfactory condition.
• If flame screens or protection screens are available on board but not currently fitted, inspect the storage
location to verify that they are stored properly in order to prevent damage and marked clearly so that they
can be located readily when required.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Cargo plans and/or maintenance records that demonstrated vent outlets from the cargo containment system
were fitted with the correct flame screen or protection screen for the cargo being carried.
• Maintenance plans that demonstrated flame screens or protection screens had been inspected and
maintained in a satisfactory condition.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• A vent outlet connected to the cargo containment system was not fitted with the required flame screen (or
safety head) or protection screen for the cargo being carried.
• A flame screen or protection screen fitted to a vent outlet connected to the cargo containment system was
not in satisfactory condition e.g., blocked or clogged, painted over or damaged.
• Flame screens not currently in use were not stored properly in order to prevent damage and/or marked
clearly so that they could be located readily when required.
• A vessel issued with an International Pollution Prevention Certificate for the Carriage of Noxious Liquid
Substances in Bulk (NLS) did not have the required flame screens (or safety heads) available on board to fit
to the vent outlets connected to the cargo containment system.
• On a vessel carrying a carbon dioxide cargo, flame screens or protection screens were fitted to the vent
outlets connected to the cargo containment system.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
8.5. LNG
