## Question 8.5.2

**Paragraph Number:**
8.5.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the Gas Combustion Unit (GCU)?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the Gas Combustion Unit is properly operated, inspected, maintained, and tested.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance and
testing of the GCU.
• Review the records of inspection, maintenance and testing of the GCU and associated alarms.
• During the physical inspection of the vessel inspect the GCU and its associated equipment.
• Where necessary, compare the observed condition with the records of inspection, maintenance, testing of
the Gas Combustion Unit.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the operation,
inspection, testing and maintenance of the GCU.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the GCU.
• Records of inspection, maintenance and testing of the GCU.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the GCU.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with:
o Actions to be taken in the event of the failure of the GCU in automatic mode and procedures for
manual operation if required.
o Provision to manually isolate the gas fuel supply to the GCU from a safely accessible position.
o Company procedures for testing GCU alarms which may include:
 Flame failure.
 Loss of combustion air supply.
 Loss of cooling air/dilution air supply.
 BOG inlet temperature.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
 Combustion gas exit temperature (HH at 535oC).
 Methane gas concentration in gas pipe duct.
 Loss of ventilation in gas pipe duct, alternatively loss of N2 pressure.
• Inspections, tests and maintenance of the GCU had not been carried out in accordance with the company
requirements.
• The GCU was defective in any respect.
• The GCU space mechanical ventilation system was defective in any respect.
• Gas detection fitted in the GCU space was defective in any respect.
• Fire detection fitted in the GCU space was defective in any respect.
• Vents or bleed lines that may contain or be contaminated by gas fuel from the GCU were not fitted with
flame screens.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
