## Question 8.5.3

**Paragraph Number:**
8.5.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
inspection, maintenance and testing of the safety arrangements for the LNG gas fuel
supply system, and were these arrangements in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the safe supply of boil-off gas (BOG) to consumers in the engine-room such as boilers, inert gas
generators, internal combustion engines, gas combustion unit and gas turbines.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the inspection, testing and maintenance of
the safety arrangements for the LNG gas fuel supply system to consumers in the engine-room such as
boilers, inert gas generators, internal combustion engines, gas combustion unit and gas turbines.
• Review the records of inspection, maintenance and testing of the safety arrangements for the LNG gas fuel
supply system.
• During the physical inspection of the vessel, inspect the LNG gas fuel supply system and the associated
safety arrangements.
• Where necessary, compare the observed condition with the records of inspection, maintenance, testing of
the safety arrangements for the LNG gas fuel supply system.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the inspection,
testing and maintenance of the safety arrangements for the LNG gas fuel supply system to consumers in the
engine-room such as boilers, inert gas generators, internal combustion engines, gas combustion unit and
gas turbines.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the inspection, testing and maintenance of the safety arrangements for the
LNG gas fuel supply system to consumers in the engine-room such as boilers, inert gas generators, internal
combustion engines, gas combustion unit and gas turbines.
• Records of inspection, maintenance and testing of the safety arrangements for the LNG gas fuel supply
system.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the inspection, maintenance and testing of the safety arrangements
for the LNG gas fuel supply system to consumers in the engine-room such as boilers, inert gas generators,
internal combustion engines, gas combustion unit and gas turbines.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the inspection, testing and
maintenance of the safety arrangements for the LNG gas fuel supply system including:
o The inerting or ventilation systems for the annular space of double-wall fuel pipes.
o Leak detection systems.
o Ventilation systems in spaces containing BOG consumers.
o Gas detection systems in spaces containing BOG consumers.
o Automatic and manual operation of master gas fuel valves.
o Arrangements for inerting and gas freeing that portion of the gas fuel piping systems located in the
machinery space.
• Inspections, tests and maintenance of the safety arrangements for the LNG gas fuel supply system had not
been carried out in accordance with the company requirements.
• A gas detection system associated with the LNG gas fuel supply system was not set to activate the alarm at
30% LFL and shut down the master gas fuel valve at not more than 60% LFL.
• One or more of the safety arrangements for the LNG fuel supply system to consumers in the engine-room
such as boilers, inert gas generators, internal combustion engines, gas combustion unit and gas turbines
was inoperative or defective in any respect – give details.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
