## Question 8.6.2

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers, and ratings involved with cargo operations, familiar with
the functions of the vessel’s cargo transfer Emergency Shut Down (ESD) systems, and
was the equipment in good working order, regularly inspected, tested and maintained?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Cargo Control Room, Main Deck, Cargo Manifold, Interview - Deck Rating
Publications
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: ESD Systems 2nd Edition 2021

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to an emergency situation during cargo transfer
operations in accordance with the shipboard emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures that defined the operation, inspection,
maintenance and testing of the vessel’s cargo transfer emergency shutdown (ESD) systems.
• Sight and review the checklists used to test the ESD system before the most recent cargo operation.
• Sight and review the checklists used to verify the timing and sequencing of ESD system functions.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, maintenance and tests carried out contained within the
planned maintenance system.
• Review the functional flowcharts (cause-effect) for the ESD system.
• Inspect the means of fire detection on the weather deck i.e. fusible plugs or area fire detection.
• Inspect the emergency push buttons on the bridge, in the cargo control room and on deck.
• Inspect an ESD manifold valve and verify that the connection between the ESD valve position indicator and
the ESD valve actuator is intact
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The purpose, operation, and testing of the ESD systems.
o The functional flowcharts (cause-effect) for the ESD system.
o The ESD valve closing timings.
o The circumstances in which any part of the ESD may be inhibited, the person who may authorise
the inhibiting and the controls in place to ensure that the ESD system is reinstated immediately
after the need to inhibit is over.
• Interview a rating involved in cargo operations and verify their familiarity with the location of the manual ESD
controls and circumstances in which the ESD system should be manually activated.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the vessel’s ESD
systems.
• The checklist used to conduct the pre-arrival tests on the ESD system prior to the previous cargo transfer
operation.
• The checklist used to verify the timing and sequencing of the ESD system functions.
• Records of the inspection, maintenance and testing of the vessel’s ESD systems.
• Functional flowcharts (cause-effect) for the cargo ESD system.
• The Cargo System Operation Manual(s), describing the ESD systems.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the vessel’s
cargo ESD systems.
• The Master, officers and ratings involved in cargo operations were not familiar with the vessel’s ESD
systems at a depth relevant to their seniority.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• A functional flowchart (cause-effect) of the ESD systems was not posted in the cargo control room and on
the bridge.
• The status of the ESD and ship/shore link (SSL) systems was not clearly visible in the cargo control room
(CCR).
• Area fire detection on the weather deck, if fitted, was not fully functional.
• Fusible elements were painted over.
• Access to the emergency push buttons was obstructed, or they were not ready for immediate use.
• The Cargo System Operation Manual did not describe the ESD system.
• The Cargo System Operation Manual did not contain procedures for re-setting of the ESD system after
completion of high-level alarm testing.
• There were no records of checks and tests of the ESD systems before cargo handling operations began.
• There were no records of checks to verify the timing and sequencing of the ESD system functions.
• Information about the closure time of the ESD valves and their operating characteristics was not available on
board,
• Records of inspections, maintenance and tests carried out were incomplete.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with:
o The purpose, operation and testing of the ESD systems.
o The functional flowcharts (cause-effect) for the ESD system.
o The ESD valve closing timings.
o The circumstances in which any part of the ESD may be inhibited, the person who may authorise
the inhibiting and the controls in place to ensure that the ESD system is reinstated immediately
after the need to inhibit is over.
• An interviewed rating, involved as part of the cargo watch, was unfamiliar with the location of the ESD
system manual controls and/or the circumstances in which manual activation of the ESD should take place.
• Inspection of the ESD systems indicated that actions recorded in the planned maintenance system had not
in fact taken place.
• The ESD systems were defective in any respect.
• Company procedures did not include a contingency plan for the circumstances where the ESD link system, if
fitted, was not available.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
