## Question 8.6.16

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.16

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the filling limits (FL) and loading limits
(LL) for the cargo tanks, and was this information readily available in the cargo control
room or position?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure cargo tanks are never over-filled.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and where necessary review the approved document specifying the maximum allowable loading limits
for each cargo tank.
• Review the loading plans for the current and previous cargo and verify that:
o The maximum liquid level in each cargo tank had been pre-calculated.
o Cargo tanks had not been loaded above the loading limits (LL).
• Interview the officer responsible for cargo planning to verify their familiarity with filling limits (FL), loading
limits (LL) and reference temperatures, and their application when planning cargo stowage.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The approved document specifying the maximum allowable loading limits for each cargo tank and product,
at each applicable loading temperature and maximum reference temperature.
• Loading plans for the current and previous cargo.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no document available specifying the maximum allowable loading limits for each cargo tank and
product, at each applicable loading temperature and maximum reference temperature.
• The document specifying the maximum allowable loading limits for each cargo tank and product, at each
applicable loading temperature and maximum reference temperature had not been approved by the flag
administration or the vessel’s class society on its behalf.
• The officer responsible for cargo planning was not familiar with filling limits (FL), loading limits (LL) and/or
reference temperatures, and their application when planning cargo stowage.
• A cargo tank(s) had been loaded above the specified loading limit (LL).
• The maximum liquid level in each cargo tank had not been pre-calculated for the current and/or previous
loading operation.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
