## Question 8.6.8

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.8

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for managing
cargo and vapour connections at the cargo manifolds, and were the manifold
arrangements in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Interview - Deck Rating, Cargo Manifold
Publications
SIGTTO: LNG Marine Loading Arms and Manifold Draining
Purging and Disconnection Procedure
IMO: ISM Code
SIGTTO/OCIMF: Recommendations for Liquefied Gas Carrier Manifolds 2nd Ed 2018
IMO: IGC Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that cargo and vapour manifolds are always safely connected, disconnected, and monitored
throughout cargo transfer operations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for managing cargo and vapour connections at
the cargo manifolds.
• Inspect cargo and vapour manifolds, including bow and stern manifolds where fitted, and verify that the
arrangements were in alignment with industry best practice and, where applicable, regulation.
• Interview a deck rating on manifold watch to verify their familiarity with:
o The hazards associated with low temperature cargoes.
o The identification of potential manifold leakage.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for managing cargo and vapour connections at the cargo manifolds.
• Information on the allowable loads for the manifold supports and pressure rating of flanges, reducers, and
spool pieces, certified by the vessel’s Class Society.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures which described the management of cargo and vapour connections at
the cargo manifolds to prevent and detect leakages.
• On an LNG carrier, there were no detailed disconnection procedures.
• On an LNG carrier, the meter used to verify that target conditions (flammable gas concentration) for
disconnection had been achieved was not calibrated for measuring methane in nitrogen.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures which described the management
of cargo and vapour connections at the cargo manifolds.
• On an LNG carrier, the accompanying officer was not familiar with the:
o Detailed disconnection procedures.
o Function of the manifold drain line and the means of remotely opening it in the event of a cargo spill
into the drip tray.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the procedures for monitoring the pressure differential
across the filter to check for possible blockage.
• A rating on manifold watch was not sufficiently familiar with:
o The hazards associated with low temperature cargoes.
o The identification of potential manifold leakage.
• A manifold strainer had been by-passed.
• A manifold connection was:
o Secured with damaged bolts or bolts of an inappropriate diameter, length or material.
o Not fully bolted, i.e. without a bolt in every hole in the flange.
o Made using improvised arrangements such as a G-clamp or similar device.
• Where a hose or marine loading arm was secured by camlocks, one or more cams had not properly
engaged with the manifold flange.
• A marine loading arm was improperly supported by jacks or similar arrangements.
• The jack for a marine loading arm was supported by items not designed to support the load, such as empty
oil drums.
• The jack for a marine loading arm was supported on gratings that were not designed to support such a load.
• Cargo hoses were not properly supported during cargo transfer.
• A manifold pressure gauge was:
o Not fitted on the outboard side of the manifold valve.
o Missing from an unused manifold connection.
• A manifold pressure gauge stem was not fitted with a valve or cock and/or was not capped when not in use.
• A manifold blank flange was not:
o As thick as the end flange it was bolted to and there was no supporting documentation to show it
was of the same working pressure rating as the line or system it was connected to.
o Made of steel or other approved material.
o Secured with bolts of an inappropriate diameter, length or material.
o Fully bolted, i.e. without a bolt in every hole in the flange.
• There was a cargo or bunker leak from an unused manifold.
• An unused manifold was not blanked.
• There was no permanent or portable drip-tray underneath a manifold connection.
• Manifold drip-tray drains to deck were not fitted with valves and capped.
• The midships hose-handling crane was being used to handle stores etc. whilst cargo operations were taking
place.
• There were not two independent means of exit for personnel from the manifold area to enable evacuation in
the event of an emergency.
• Access to the manifold area for non-essential personnel was not visibly restricted.
• Manifold gratings were not secured to the drip tray structure to provide a firm, non-skid, working surface.
• Manifold drip tray gratings were constructed of a material that would be adversely affected by spilled cargo.
• The manifold drip tray on an LNG carrier contained water.
• The hull water curtain was not in operation during an LNG cargo transfer operation.
• There was no information available on board on the allowable loads for the manifold supports and pressure
rating of flanges, reducers and spool pieces, certified by the vessel’s Class Society.
• The cargo manifold was not permanently and clearly marked, at a suitable location, with its designed safe
working loads.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Manifold valves and lines were not clearly marked as to whether they were liquid or vapour.
• Bow or stern loading and unloading lines that led past accommodation spaces, service spaces or control
stations were being used for the transfer of products requiring a type 1G ship.
• Bow or stern loading and unloading lines were being used for the transfer of toxic products as specified in
IGC 1.2.53, where the design pressure was above 2.5 MPa.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
