## Question 8.6.19

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.19

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
operation of the submerged motor electric cargo pumps and the testing of their
associated safety devices and alarms, and had these procedures been followed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the submerged motor electric cargo pumps are always operated safely.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation of the submerged motor
electric cargo pumps and the testing of their associated safety devices and alarms.
• Inspect the submerged motor electric cargo pump monitoring system panel and verify that the monitoring
system is fully operational.
• Review the test records for the submerged motor electric cargo pump monitoring system and verify that the
required safety device and alarm tests have been completed at the frequency defined by the company.
• Review the records of visual inspection of the junction boxes of the submerged motor electric cargo pumps
prior to each discharge.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the actions to be taken in the event of:
o A low liquid level alarm and cargo pump shutdown.
o Gas-freeing operations.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the operation of the submerged motor electric cargo pumps and the testing of their
associated safety devices and alarms.
• Records of tests of the safety devices and alarms.
• Records of visual inspection of the junction boxes of the submerged motor electric cargo pumps prior to
each discharge.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation of the submerged motor electric cargo pumps and the
testing of their associated safety devices and alarms that included guidance on:
o Arrangements for isolating the pumps from the electrical supply and the occasions when this must
be done e.g., during gas-freeing operations.
o Settings and periodic tests of the associated safety devices such as:
 Low pump discharge pressure alarm.
 Low motor current alarm.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
 Low liquid level alarm.
• The submerged motor electric cargo pump monitoring system was defective in any respect.
• The required safety device and alarm tests had not been completed at the frequency defined by the
company.
• The submerged motor electric cargo pumps were not fitted with arrangements to automatically shut down
the motors in the event of low-liquid level.
• The submerged motor electric cargo pumps were not capable of being isolated from their electrical supply.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the actions to be taken in the event of:
o A low liquid level alarm and cargo pump shutdown.
o Gas-freeing operations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
