## Question 8.6.6

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
management and operation of the cargo alarm systems, and had these procedures been
followed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition
SIGTTO: Recommendations for Management of Cargo Alarm Systems
1st edition
2019

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that there is an effective alarm management system in place.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the management and operation of the
cargo alarm systems.
• Review the records of any changes made to alarm systems and/or settings, and when alarms have been
overridden. Verify that they had been risk assessed and authorised as required and time limits set as
appropriate.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the
management and operation of the cargo alarm systems.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the management and operation of the cargo alarm systems.
• Records of any changes made to alarm systems and/or settings, and when alarms have been overridden.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There were no company procedures for the management and operation of the cargo alarm systems that
included, as applicable:
o Roles and responsibilities, including the identities of the personnel responsible for managing
changes to the system, keeping proper records, and carrying out maintenance.
o Authorisation required before changing a set point or overriding an alarm.
o Requirements for risk assessment before changing a set point or overriding an alarm.
o Actions to be taken when an alarm is temporarily out in service.
o Records to be kept, including any changes made to alarm systems and/or settings, and when
alarms have been overridden.
• The company procedures were not aligned with the systems that were fitted onboard with regards to the
controls to prevent unauthorised adjustment of an alarm set point or the overriding of an alarm.
• The password and/or key control to operate the adjustment of alarm set points or the override of an alarm
were freely available and not under the control of those identified by the company procedure for managing
changes to the cargo system.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the management and operation
of the cargo alarm systems.
• There were no records of changes made to alarm systems and/or settings, and when alarms had been
overridden, or records were incomplete e.g., no risk assessments where required.
• An alarm was observed to have been overridden or disabled but there was no record of the required risk
assessment, authorisation and/or authorisation.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
