## Question 8.6.12

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.12

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures relating to the
safety, rescue and recovery equipment, including SCBAs, required by the IGC Code, and
was the equipment ready for immediate use?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the safety, rescue and recovery equipment required by the IGC Code is always ready for
immediate use in the event of an emergency.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, company procedures for the use of the safety equipment, including
SCBAs, required by the IGC Code.
• Review the records of inspection and testing of the SCBAs forming part of the safety equipment required by
the IGC.
• Review the documentation supporting the appointment of a crew member as the designated competent
person responsible for annual inspection and testing of the SCBAs required by the IGC, where applicable.
• Inspect at least one set of safety equipment required by the IGC Code.
• Inspect the stretcher and oxygen resuscitation equipment.
• If the vessel is over 5000m3 total cargo capacity, verify that there are five firefighter’s outfits on board, in
addition to the minimum of two or three safety equipment sets required.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with company procedures for the use of the
safety equipment, including SCBAs and oxygen resuscitation equipment, required by the IGC Code.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the use of the safety equipment, including SCBAs, required by the IGC Code.
• Records of inspection and testing of the SCBAs forming part of the safety equipment required by the IGC.
• Evidence that the protective suits were suitable for:
o All the cargoes listed on the International Certificate of Fitness for the Carriage of Liquified Gases
in Bulk.
o Use in a flammable atmosphere.
• Where annual testing of the SCBAs had been conducted by a 'competent person' who was a member of the
crew, a copy of the manufacturer's training course certificate for the specific type of SCBA carried on board
for the crewmember who performed the service.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures relating to the safety equipment, including SCBAs, required by the IGC
Code, giving guidance on:
o Stowage and maintaining readiness of the equipment.
o Inspection and testing of the SCBAs.
o Non-emergency use of the SCBAs, including maximum individual daily use and required rest
periods.
o Use of the oxygen resuscitation equipment.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures relating to the safety equipment,
including SCBAs and/or oxygen resuscitation equipment, required by the IGC Code.
• There were fewer than two/three complete sets of safety equipment on board, in addition to the four or five
sets required by the IGC for fire-fighting purposes.
• A set of safety equipment did not contain:
o one self-contained, positive pressure air-breathing apparatus incorporating full face mask, not using
stored oxygen, having a capacity of at least 1,200 â„“ of free air and compatible with those forming
part of the firefighter’s outfits.
o protective clothing, boots and gloves to a recognized standard;
o steel-cored rescue line with belt; and
o explosion-proof lamp.
• For the safety equipment required by the IGC, the vessel was not equipped with:
o at least one fully charged spare air bottle for each breathing apparatus.
o an air compressor of adequate capacity capable of continuous operation, suitable for the supply of
high-pressure air of breathable quality; and
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o a charging manifold capable of dealing with sufficient spare breathing apparatus air bottles for the
breathing apparatus.
• The protective suits forming part of the safety equipment were not suitable for:
o All the cargoes listed on the International Certificate of Fitness for the Carriage of Liquified Gases
in Bulk
o Use in a flammable atmosphere.
o Gastight
• Where annual testing of the SCBAs had been conducted by a 'competent person' who was a member of the
crew, there was no evidence that the crewmember who performed the service was in possession of a valid
manufacturer's training course certificate for the specific type of SCBA carried on board.
• The oxygen resuscitation was not in satisfactory condition and/or the oxygen bottle was not fully charged.
• Records of monthly inspection or annual inspection and testing of the SCBA were either missing or
incomplete.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
