## Question 8.6.3

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
inspection, maintenance, testing and setting of the cargo tank relief valves?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition
SIGTTO: Recommendations for Relief Valves on Gas Carriers 3rd Ed 2020

---

### **Objective**
To ensure cargo tank relief valves are properly inspected, maintained, tested, and set.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the inspection, maintenance, testing and
setting of cargo tank relief valves.
• Review the records of inspection, maintenance and testing of the cargo tank relief valves.
• Review the records for any change of settings of cargo tank relief valves.
• During the inspection, observe the disposition and visual condition of the cargo tank relief valves and the
venting arrangements.
• Where necessary, compare the observed condition with the records of inspection, maintenance and testing
of cargo tank relief valves.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for:
o Changing the set pressure of the cargo tank relief valves and the corresponding resetting of
alarms, including record keeping.
o Inspection, maintenance and testing of the cargo tank relief valves.
o Actions to take in the event of a cargo tank relief valve malfunction including emergency isolation.
o Where fitted, the operation of the automated cargo tank venting system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the inspection, maintenance, testing and setting of the cargo tank relief valves.
• Records of inspection, maintenance, testing and setting of the cargo tank relief valves.
• Records for any change of settings of cargo tank relief valves.
• Evidence of training for the officer responsible for the maintenance and operation of the cargo tank relief
valves.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the inspection, maintenance, testing and setting of the cargo tank
relief valves.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for:
o Changing the set pressure of the cargo tank relief valves and the corresponding resetting of
alarms, including record keeping.
o Inspection, maintenance and testing of the cargo tank relief valves.
o Actions to take in the event of a cargo rank relief valve malfunction including emergency isolation.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation of the automated
cargo tank venting system.
• There were no records available of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the cargo tank relief
valves including:
o Checks prior each cargo operation.
o Six-monthly visual inspections.
o Annual verification of free operation using a field test kit, where applicable according to the vessel
operational manual and/or instructions.
o Five-yearly overhaul.
• Inspections, tests and maintenance of the cargo tank relief valves had not been carried out in accordance
with the company requirements.
• The officer responsible for the maintenance and operation of the cargo tank relief valves had not received
training in accordance with the company procedure.
• Cargo tank relief valves were not sealed, or the seals were broken.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Where more than one pressure setting was permitted, there were no records available of the changes made
to the cargo tank relief valve settings.
• Where more than one pressure setting was permitted, there was no sign displayed in the cargo control room
or at the cargo tank relief valve indicating the setting in force.
• Where a defective cargo tank relief valve had been isolated, no records had been kept.
• Where a defective cargo tank relief valve had been isolated, there was no sign displayed in the cargo control
room or at the cargo tank relief valve indicating the status of the valve.
• A cargo tank had been loaded despite having a defective and previously isolated cargo tank relief valve.
• A cargo tank relief valve had been painted in a manner which might cause the valve to malfunction.
• Galvanic corrosion was evident on a cargo tank relief valve.
• A cargo tank relief valve was defective in any respect.
• Vent masts contained accumulated rainwater.
• Vent mast drains were found to be open during the inspection.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
