## Question 8.6.7

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.7

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the vessel’s inert gas system and its
associated equipment, and was the equipment in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Engine Room, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the inert gas system always delivers inert gas in accordance with the requirements for the cargo
carried.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and
maintenance of the inert gas system.
• Review the records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas system.
• Review the records of checks of the inert gas system, before, during and after operation.
• Review the records of checks to confirm that the oxygen concentration did not exceed the specified level
and that the pressure was above atmospheric when inert gas was used in the cargo system, including tanks,
holds or interbarrier spaces.
• Where necessary, compare the observed condition with the records of inspection, testing and maintenance
of the inert gas system.
• During the physical inspection of the vessel inspect the inert gas system.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the operation,
testing and maintenance of the inert gas system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas system.
• Records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas system.
• Records of checks of the inert gas system, before, during and after operation.
• Records of checks to confirm that the oxygen concentration did not exceed the specified level and that the
pressure was above atmospheric when inert gas was used in the cargo system, including tanks, holds or
interbarrier spaces.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas
system that included, as applicable:
o Roles and responsibilities for operation, testing and maintenance.
o Description of the inert gas system fitted on board.
o Procedures to ensure that instruments and equipment used in the system are maintained in good
condition and calibrated in accordance with the recommendations of original equipment
manufacturers.
o Arrangements to prevent the backflow of cargo vapour into the inert gas system.
o Guidance on the maximum percentage of carbon dioxide that is acceptable to avoid ‘dry ice’
formation.
o Guidance on dew point limitations to prevent condensation, freezing, corrosion and damage to
insulation at the minimum operating temperature.
o Arrangements for checking regularly to confirm that the oxygen concentration does not exceed the
specified level and that the pressure is above atmospheric when inert gas is used in the cargo
system, including tanks, holds or interbarrier spaces.
o Arrangements for monitoring the oxygen content in enclosed or semi-enclosed spaces containing
equipment, including nitrogen generators, inert gas (IG) generators or nitrogen cycle refrigerant
systems, that may cause an oxygen deficient environment.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation, inspection,
testing and maintenance of the inert gas system.
• Where a nitrogen generator was fitted, the accompanying officer was not familiar with the dangers from:
o An oxygen deficient atmosphere as a result of nitrogen leakage.
o The oxygen-enriched exhaust from the nitrogen generator.
• Inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas system had not been carried out in accordance with the
company procedures.
• The continuous-reading oxygen content meter had not been calibrated in accordance with the
recommendations of original equipment manufacturers.
• Non-return valves to prevent the backflow of cargo vapour into the inert gas system had not been tested for
effectiveness at regular intervals.
• There were no records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the inert gas system.
• There were no records of checks to confirm that the oxygen concentration did not exceed the specified level
and that the pressure was above atmospheric when inert gas was used in the cargo system, including tanks,
holds or interbarrier spaces.
• There were no records of checks of the inert gas system, before, during and after operation.
• There was no evidence that the oxygen content in enclosed or semi-enclosed spaces containing equipment,
including nitrogen generators, inert gas (IG) generators or nitrogen cycle refrigerant systems, that may
cause an oxygen deficient environment had been monitored.
• Where the inert gas plant was contained in an enclosed room or space, there were no safe entry procedures
posted at each entrance to the room.
• The inert gas delivered was not suitable for the intended purpose, because:
o It was not chemically compatible with the liquefied gas cargo and the materials of construction of
the cargo system throughout the full range of operating temperatures and pressures.
o The dew point was not sufficiently low enough to prevent condensation, freezing, corrosion and
damage to insulation at the minimum operating temperature.
o The oxygen concentration exceeded 5%, (or 0.2% or less, as required, for cargoes which can react
to form peroxides).
o It did not have a low concentration of carbon dioxide to prevent freezing at the anticipated service
temperature.
• The continuous-reading oxygen content meter and alarm system was defective in any respect.
• Temporary connections (e.g., spool-pieces) had not been removed from between the inert gas system and
the cargo system following inerting operations.
• The inert gas system was defective in any respect.
Where the entry procedures posted at the entrance(s) to the space or spaces containing the inert gas system were
not in alignment with the enclosed space entry procedure in the SMS, or entry into a space containing the inert gas
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
system was authorised during the inspection without full compliance with the enclosed space entry procedure, make
an observation under question 5.5.1.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
