## Question 8.6.21

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.21

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures that gave
guidance on cargo tank environmental control during inerting, gas freeing and gassing
up operations, thermal load hazards during tank cool-down, and the minimum cargo
temperature?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure inerting, gas freeing, gassing up and tank cool-down operations are carried out in a safe manner.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures that give guidance on cargo tank
environmental control during inerting, gas freeing and gassing up operations, thermal load hazards during
tank cool-down, and the minimum cargo temperature.
• Review records of inerting, gassing up and cooling down operations including:
o Parameters monitored.
o Evidence that gas concentration monitoring was carried out at different tank levels during inerting
or gassing up operations.
o Actions taken to maintain the interbarrier / hold space pressure.
o Nitrogen consumption and, where fitted, running hours of the nitrogen generator.
• Review the Certificate of Fitness and note the minimum allowable cargo temperature.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The company procedures that give guidance on cargo tank environmental control during inerting,
gas freeing and gassing up operations.
o Thermal load hazards during tank cool-down
o The minimum cargo temperature.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures that give guidance on cargo tank environmental control during inerting, gas
freeing and gassing up operations, thermal load hazards during tank cool-down, and the minimum cargo
temperature.
• Records of inerting, gassing up and cooling down operations including:
o Parameters monitored.
o Evidence that gas concentration monitoring was carried out at different tank levels during inerting
or gassing up operations.
o Actions taken to maintain the interbarrier / hold space pressure.
o Nitrogen consumption and, where fitted, running hours of the nitrogen generator.
• Certificate of Fitness for the Carriage of Liquefied Gases in Bulk.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures that gave guidance on cargo tank environmental control during inerting,
gas freeing and gassing up operations, thermal load hazards during tank cool-down, and the minimum cargo
temperature, and included as applicable:
o Guidance on parameters to be monitored, which may include:
 Pressure in interbarrier spaces during cool-down.
 Nitrogen consumption/flow.
 Temperature.
 Rate of cool-down.
 Flammable gas levels at different levels in the tank.
 Oxygen content.
 Humidity.
 Removal of inert gas from the cargo tank.
o Acceptable ranges for applicable parameters.
o Actions to be taken if a parameter is out of the acceptable range.
o Set points for any automatic pressure control systems and alarms.
o Records to be maintained for each applicable parameter, and actions taken to maintain the
atmosphere in the required condition.
o Maximum allowable temperature differential between the top and bottom of the cargo tank.
o Control of ice or hydrates and use of anti-freeze.
o Pressurising cargo tanks to maintain the liquid temperature above the minimum permitted cargo
tank temperature.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures that gave guidance on cargo tank
environmental control during inerting, gas freeing and gassing up operations, thermal load hazards during
tank cool-down, and the minimum cargo temperature.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the minimum cargo temperature at which the vessel was
certified to load.
• There were no detailed records available for previous inerting, gassing up and cooling down operations.
• Records indicated that the parameters required to be monitored had not been met and/or maintained during
any stage of an inerting, gassing up and cooling down operation.
• There was no evidence that gas concentration monitoring was carried out at different tank levels during
inerting or gassing up operations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
8.7. Shuttle Tanker Cargo Operations
