## Question 8.6.4

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.4

---

### **Question**
Was a ship specific Cargo System Operation Manual provided on board, and were
the Master and officers familiar with its content?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all ship staff involved in cargo operations have sufficient information about cargo properties
and operating the cargo system so that they can conduct cargo operations safely. (IMO: IGC Code Ch.18
Goal)

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
Sight the Cargo System Operation Manual and verify the contents include:
• Overall operation of the ship from dry-dock to dry-dock, including procedures for cargo tank cooldown and
warm-up, transfer (including ship-to-ship transfer), cargo sampling, gas-freeing, ballasting, tank cleaning and
changing cargoes.
• Cargo temperature and pressure control systems.
• Cargo system limitations, including minimum temperatures (cargo system and inner hull), maximum
pressures, transfer rates, filling limits and sloshing limitations.
• Nitrogen and inert gas systems.
• Firefighting procedures: operation and maintenance of firefighting systems and use of extinguishing agents.
• Special equipment needed for safe handling of the particular cargo.
• Fixed and portable gas detection.
• Control, alarm and safety systems.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Emergency shutdown systems.
• Procedures to change cargo tank pressure relief valve set pressures.
• Emergency procedures, including cargo tank relief valve isolation, single tank gas-freeing and entry and
emergency ship-to-ship transfer operations.
Verify that the accompanying officer is familiar with the contents of the manual(s).

---

### **Expected Evidence**
Cargo System Operation Manual(s)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no Cargo System Operation Manual available on board.
• The Cargo System Operation Manual available on board was not ship specific.
• The Cargo System Operation Manual available on board did not address the hazards and properties of all
the liquified gas cargoes that the vessel was permitted to carry.
• The Cargo System Operation Manual available on board did not document the overall operation cycle of the
ship from dry-dock to dry-dock and/or describe the cargo equipment and systems fitted.
• The Cargo System Operation Manual available on board did not include information on maximum loading
rates.
• The Cargo System Operation Manual was not approved by the flag administration or a recognised
organisation.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the contents of the Cargo System Operation Manual
available on board.
• The Cargo System Operation Manual available on board was not provided in a language understandable by
the officers responsible for cargo operations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
