## Question 8.6.5

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for monitoring
the integrity of the containment system and maintaining the atmosphere in the
interbarrier spaces and/or hold spaces in a safe condition, and had records been
maintained?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Main Deck, Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: IGC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition
IMO: ISM Code
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the integrity of the containment system is monitored and that the atmosphere within the
system and hold spaces are always maintained in a safe condition.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for monitoring the integrity of the containment
system and maintaining the atmosphere in the interbarrier spaces and/or hold spaces in a safe condition.
• Review the records of the parameters monitored and actions taken to maintain the atmosphere in the
required condition.
• Where applicable:
o Verify that arrangements for purging the interbarrier spaces with nitrogen are in a satisfactory
condition.
o Review records of nitrogen consumption and, where fitted, the running hours of the nitrogen
generator.
o Verify whether nitrogen sweeping valves have been left open or closed.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for monitoring the
integrity of the containment system and maintaining the atmosphere in the interbarrier spaces and/or hold
spaces in a safe condition.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for monitoring the integrity of the containment system and maintaining the
atmosphere in the interbarrier spaces and/or hold spaces in a safe condition.
• Records of the parameters monitored.
• Records of actions taken to maintain the atmosphere in the required condition.
• Records of nitrogen consumption and, where fitted, running hours of the nitrogen generator.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for monitoring the integrity of the containment system and maintaining
the atmosphere in the interbarrier spaces and/or hold spaces in a safe condition that included:
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Roles and responsibilities.
o Guidance on parameters to be monitored, which may include, depending upon the cargo
containment system:
 Pressure.
 Nitrogen consumption.
 Temperature.
 Flammable gas levels.
 Oxygen content.
 Dew point.
o Acceptable ranges for applicable parameters.
o Actions to be taken if a parameter is out of the acceptable range.
o Set points for any automatic pressure control systems and alarms.
o Records to be maintained for each applicable parameter, and actions taken to maintain the
atmosphere in the required condition.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for monitoring the integrity of the
containment system and maintaining the atmosphere in the interbarrier spaces and/or hold spaces in a safe
condition.
• The atmosphere in the interbarrier spaces and/or hold spaces had not been maintained as required by
company requirements for:
o Pressure.
o Temperature.
o Flammable gas levels.
o Oxygen content.
o Dew point.
• Records had not been maintained of nitrogen consumption and nitrogen generator running hours.
• The pressure in the interbarrier spaces had not been maintained at a sufficient level to prevent ingress from
the atmosphere.
• Equipment to monitor the atmosphere in interbarrier and/or hold spaces was defective in any respect.
• Alarms fitted to equipment to monitor the atmosphere in interbarrier and/or hold spaces had been inhibited.
• Alarms fitted to equipment to monitor the atmosphere in interbarrier and/or hold spaces had not been set as
required by company procedures.
• Hold spaces, without open connection to the atmosphere, were not provided with suitable pressure gauges.
• Secondary barrier temperature sensors had recorded a low reading indicating that liquid cargo may be in
contact with the barrier.
• Sweeping valves were not closed after purging operations were completed.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
