## Question 8.6.17

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.17

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the vent mast fire suppression system,
and was the system in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that crewmembers can respond effectively to a fire situation in accordance with the shipboard
emergency plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and
maintenance of the vent mast fire suppression system.
• Review the records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the vent mast fire suppression system.
• Where necessary, compare the observed condition with the records of inspection, testing and maintenance
of the vent mast fire suppression system.
• During the physical inspection of the vessel, inspect the vent mast fire suppression system and its
associated equipment.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the operation,
inspection, testing and maintenance of the vent mast fire suppression system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the vent mast fire
suppression system.
• Record of inspection, testing and maintenance of the vent mast fire suppression system.
• The Cargo System Operation Manual and/or FFA manual.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the vent mast
fire suppression system that included:
o Roles and responsibilities for inspection, testing and maintenance.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Description of the vent mast fire suppression system, its components and its functions.
o Requirements for regular inspection, testing and maintenance of the equipment including checking
the level in any portable gas cylinders.
o Actions to be taken in the event of a fire at the vent mast, including instructions for the release of
the system.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation, inspection,
testing and maintenance of the vent mast fire suppression system.
• Inspection, testing and maintenance of the vent mast fire suppression system had not been carried out in
accordance with the company procedures.
• The vent mast fire suppression system was defective in any respect.
• The Cargo System Operation Manual and/or FFA manual did not include instructions for the use of the vent
mast fire suppression system.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
