## Question 8.6.14

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.14

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the safe
operation and maintenance of the reliquefaction plant, and was the equipment in
satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Compressor Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the safe operation of the reliquefaction plant.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, testing and maintenance of
the reliquefaction plant, machinery, instrumentation, control and shutdown equipment.
• Review the records of inspection, maintenance and testing of the reliquefaction equipment.
• Where necessary, compare the observed condition with the records of inspection, maintenance, testing of
the reliquefaction equipment.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the operation,
testing and maintenance of the reliquefaction plant, machinery, instrumentation, control and shutdown
equipment.
• During the physical inspection of the vessel inspect the reliquefaction plant and its associated equipment.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, testing and maintenance of the reliquefaction plant, machinery,
instrumentation, control and shutdown equipment.
• Record of inspection, maintenance and testing of the reliquefaction system.
• Test records for safety relief valves fitted to reliquefaction system.
• Records of regular checks of reliquefaction plant liquid level during operation.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, testing and maintenance of the reliquefaction plant,
machinery, instrumentation, control and shutdown equipment that included, as applicable:
o Roles and responsibilities for operation, testing and maintenance.
o Description of the reliquefaction system, its components and its functions.
o Procedures for start-up and shut-down of the system.
o Regular checks including:
 compressor lubrication oil levels,
 suction filters
 reliquefaction plant liquid level during operation to prevent overfilling of receivers or
condensers.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Periodic inspections, tests and maintenance of the equipment including pressure tests of the
condensers and calibration of the instrumentation.
o Compatibility of compressor lubrication oil with the cargoes carried.
o Compatibility of refrigerants with the cargoes carried and other refrigerants in use.
o Segregating reliquefaction systems for incompatible cargoes.
o Reliquefaction of inhibited cargoes.
o Dealing with incondensable gases.
o Prevention of overfilling of cargo tanks via reliquefication including setting high-level alarms.
o Integration of the reliquefaction system into the cargo ESD system or any independent shutdown
system for the reliquefaction plant.
o The secondary tank pressure management system to be used at sea in the event of a shutdown of
the reliquefaction system.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation, testing and
maintenance of the reliquefaction plant, machinery, instrumentation, control and shutdown equipment.
• Inspection, testing and maintenance of the reliquefaction plant had not been carried out in accordance with
the company procedures.
• Refrigerant in use was not compatible with the cargo.
• Compressor lubricating oil level was found to be low.
• Compressor lubricating oil was not compatible with the cargo.
• There were no records of regular checks of reliquefaction plant liquid levels during operation to prevent
overfilling of receivers or condensers.
• Compressor discharge temperature limits were not set in accordance with the compressor manufacturer and
cargo operation manual requirements.
• The reliquefaction plant was defective in any respect.
• There were no records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the reliquefaction plant including safety
relief valves, where fitted.
• Cargo was being or had been vented to atmosphere to control tank pressure without flag and/or port state
authorisation.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
