## Question 8.6.11

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.11

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the regular
inspection and maintenance of cargo and vapour pipeline insulation and expansion
arrangements, and were these arrangements in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure cargo and vapour line insulation and expansion arrangements are regularly inspected and
properly maintained.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the regular inspection and maintenance of
cargo and vapour pipeline insulation and expansion arrangements.
• Review the records of the regular inspection and maintenance of cargo and vapour pipeline insulation and
expansion arrangements.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• During the inspection of the main deck inspect the cargo and vapour pipeline insulation, where fitted, and
expansion arrangements.
• Where necessary, compare the observed condition with the records of inspection and maintenance of the
cargo and vapour pipeline insulation and expansion arrangements.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the regular inspection and maintenance of cargo and vapour pipeline insulation
and expansion arrangements.
• Records of the regular inspection and maintenance of cargo and vapour pipeline insulation and expansion
arrangements.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the regular inspection and maintenance of cargo and vapour
pipeline insulation and expansion arrangements.
• Inspection and maintenance of cargo and vapour pipeline insulation and expansion arrangements had not
been carried out in accordance with the company procedures.
• A section of cargo or vapour pipeline insulation had been removed and not replaced.
• Cargo or vapour pipeline insulation was cracked or otherwise damaged (give details).
• Icing on pipework insulation indicated a local failure of the insulation.
• There was evidence of corrosion on the pipework underneath the insulation.
• Bellows were found to be defective in some respect e.g. mechanical damage, cracks, corrosion, pin-hole
leaks, or signs of excessive wear.
• Bellows were fitted with temporary tie-bars or constraints.
• A flexible sleeve was missing from a bellows where previously fitted.
• Pipelines were not free to move within their clamps.
• Pipe workload bearing insulating chocks were:
o Constructed of the incorrect material.
o Wholly or partly missing.
• Cargo and/or vapour pipeline insulation arrangements were defective in any respect.
• Cargo and/or vapour pipeline expansion arrangements were defective any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
