## Question 8.6.18

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.18

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for detecting
water leakage into hold or insulation spaces and for dealing with any water or liquid
cargo that may have accumulated in these spaces?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure any water or cargo liquid leakage into hold or insulation spaces is safely removed.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for detecting water leakage into a hold or
insulation space and for dealing with any water or liquid cargo that may have accumulated in these spaces.
• Review the records of tests of the water detection and pumping arrangements.
• During the physical inspection of the vessel, inspect:
o The water detection alarm system, if fitted.
o If practical, the pumping arrangements.
o Where required, portable equipment required for the pumping arrangements.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for:
o Detecting water leakage into a hold or insulation space and for dealing with any water or liquid
cargo that may have accumulated in these spaces.
o Testing the water detection alarm system and pumping arrangements.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for detecting water leakage into a hold or insulation space and for dealing with any
water or liquid cargo that may have accumulated in these spaces.
• Records of tests of the water detection and pumping arrangements.
• Where required, the inventory of portable equipment required for the pumping arrangements.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no ship-specific company procedures for detecting water leakage into a hold or insulation space
and for dealing with any water or liquid cargo that may have accumulated in these spaces that included
guidance on the:
o Means of detecting any water leakage into hold or insulation spaces.
o Pumping arrangements for removing any water leakage into these spaces.
o Where required, arrangements for removing any liquid cargo leakage into these spaces.
o Testing requirements for the water detection and pumping arrangements.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the ship-specific company procedures for detecting water
leakage into a hold or insulation space and for dealing with any water or liquid cargo that may have
accumulated in these spaces.
• There were no records of tests of the water detection and pumping arrangements.
• Tests of the water detection and pumping arrangements had not been carried out as required by company
procedures.
• The means of detecting any water leakage into hold or insulation spaces were defective in any respect.
• The water detection alarm system was inhibited.
• The pumping arrangements for removing any water leakage into these spaces were defective in any
respect.
• The arrangements for removing any liquid cargo leakage into these spaces were defective in any respect.
• A removable spool piece that formed part of the arrangements for removing liquid cargo leakage had been
left in place.
• Any item of portable equipment required for the pumping arrangements was not available onboard.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
