## Question 8.6.15

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.15

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the safe
operation and maintenance of the cargo heaters, vaporisers and condensers, and was
the equipment in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Compressor Room
Publications
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the safe operation of the cargo heaters, vaporisers and condensers.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, testing and maintenance of
the cargo heaters, vaporisers and condensers.
• Review the records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the cargo heaters, vaporisers, condensers.
• Where necessary, compare the observed condition with the records of inspection, testing and maintenance
of the cargo heaters, vaporisers and condensers.
• During the physical inspection of the vessel inspect the cargo heaters, vaporisers and condensers.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the operation,
testing and maintenance of the cargo heaters, vaporisers, condensers.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, testing and maintenance of the cargo heaters, vaporisers and
condensers.
• Records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the cargo heaters, vaporisers, condensers.
• Test records for safety relief valves fitted to cargo heaters, vaporisers, condensers.
• Records of checks of the cargo heaters, vaporisers, condensers prior, during and after operation.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There were no company procedures for the operation, testing and maintenance of the cargo heaters,
vaporisers and condensers that included, as applicable:
o Roles and responsibilities for operation, testing and maintenance.
o Descriptions of the cargo heaters, vaporisers, condensers, their components and functions.
o Pressure testing.
o Procedures for start-up and shut-down of the system, including tests of both cargo and water sides
for leakage and test water flow shutdowns.
o Ensuring the equipment in use is compatible with the cargo being handled.
o Identification of the alarms required to be tested to ensure the unit is protected.
o The correct sequence for hot or cold phase flow.
o Avoiding freezing of the alarms and temperature controls.
o Gas detection monitoring during use.
o Regulating cargo flow.
o The control of the cargo flow rate into direct heaters.
o Precautions when using sea water as the heating medium to prevent freezing and subsequent tube
damage if the cargo vapour pressure inside the vaporiser becomes too low.
o The precautions when using fresh water as opposed to salt water at river berths.
o Flushing requirements after use.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation, testing and
maintenance of the cargo heaters, vaporisers and condensers.
• Inspection, testing and maintenance of the cargo heaters, vaporisers and condensers, including pressure
testing, had not been carried out in accordance with the company procedures.
• There were no records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the cargo heaters, vaporisers, condensers
including safety relief valves, where fitted.
• There were no records of checks of the cargo heaters, vaporisers, condensers prior, during and after
operation.
• A cargo heater, vaporiser or condenser was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
