## Question 8.6.10

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.10

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for carrying
out emergency discharge operations, and was any required additional equipment in
satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the vessel will be able to discharge the cargo safely in the event of equipment failure.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review the company procedures for carrying out emergency discharge
operations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Verify that the accompanying officer is familiar with the company procedures for carrying out emergency
discharge operations.
• Where an emergency cargo pump is provided:
o Inspect the emergency cargo pump where possible.
o Verify that inspections and tests had been conducted in accordance with company procedures.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for carrying out emergency discharge operations.
• Where carried, the inspection and testing records for the emergency cargo pump.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no ship-specific company procedures for carrying out emergency discharge operations using an
emergency cargo pump or via pressurisation as applicable.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for carrying out emergency
discharge operations.
• Where emergency discharge procedures involved an emergency cargo pump, the pump was:
o Defective in any respect.
o Not stored in the required ‘dry’ atmosphere.
• Where carried, there were no records of the inspection and testing of the emergency cargo pump.
• Where emergency discharge procedures involved pressurisation, they did not give guidance on resetting the
cargo tank relief valves where necessary.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
