## Question 8.6.20

**Paragraph Number:**
8.6.20

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
inspection, maintenance, testing and setting of the liquid line, hold, insulation and inter-
barrier space relief valves?

---

### **Vessel Types**
LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: IGC Code
SIGTTO: Recommendations for Relief Valves on Gas Carriers 3rd Ed 2020

---

### **Objective**
To ensure liquid line, hold, and insulation and inter-barrier space relief valves are properly inspected,
maintained, tested, and set.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the inspection, maintenance, testing and
setting of the liquid line, hold, insulation and inter-barrier space relief valves.
• Review the records of inspection, maintenance, testing and setting of the liquid line, hold, insulation and
inter-barrier space relief valves.
• During the inspection, observe the disposition and visual condition of the liquid line, hold, insulation and
inter-barrier space relief valves.
• Where necessary, compare the observed condition with the records of inspection, maintenance, testing and
setting of the liquid line, hold, insulation and inter-barrier space relief valves.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the inspection, maintenance, testing and setting of the liquid line, hold,
insulation and inter-barrier space relief valves
• Records of inspection, maintenance, testing and setting of the liquid line, hold, insulation and inter-barrier
space relief valves
• Evidence of training for the officer responsible for the maintenance and operation of the relief valves.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the inspection, maintenance, testing and setting of the liquid line,
hold, insulation and inter-barrier space relief valves.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with:
o The company procedures for the inspection, maintenance, testing and setting of the liquid line,
hold, insulation and inter-barrier space relief valves.
o The actions to take in the event of a relief valve malfunction.
• There were no records available of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the relief valves
including:
o Checks prior each loading.
o Six-monthly visual inspections.
o Annual verification of free operation using a field test kit.
o Five-yearly overhaul.
• Inspections, tests and maintenance of the relief valves had not been carried out in accordance with the
company requirements.
• The officer responsible for the maintenance and operation of the relief valves had not received training in
accordance with the company procedure.
• A relief valve had been painted in a manner which might cause the valve to malfunction.
• Galvanic corrosion was evident on a relief valve.
• A liquid line, hold, insulation or inter-barrier space relief valve was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
