## Question 8.7.4

**Paragraph Number:**
8.7.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the Bow Loading System (BLS),
including alarms and indicators, and was the BLS area well maintained and free from oil.

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bow Loading Area
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
Norwegian Oil and Gas recommended guidelines for offshore loading shuttle tankers Guideline No. 140
ABS : Shuttle Tanker Advisory
September 2019

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the BLS is operated safely and regularly inspected, tested, and maintained.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and
maintenance of the Bow Loading System (BLS).
• Review the records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the BLS including:
o BLS coupler valve tightness tests.
o Coupler and inboard valve closing-time checks.
o BLS operator console alarm and indicators tests.
o Other test requirements.
• During the physical inspection of the vessel inspect the BLS including:
o Manifold room.
o Loading manifold.
o Forward BLS operator console.
o Pressure relief arrangements, where fitted.
o Inboard valve.
o Access to the bow loading area and forecastle.
o Watchman’s cabin.
o Manifold flushing arrangements.
o Crude oil line.
o Bow door(s).
o Hydraulic room.
o Electrical equipment room, where fitted.
• Where necessary, compare the observed condition with the records of inspection, testing and maintenance
of the BLS.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the operation,
inspection, testing and maintenance of the BLS.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the Bow Loading System
(BLS).
• Records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the BLS including:
o BLS coupler valve tightness tests.
o Coupler and inboard valve closing-time checks.
o BLS operator console alarm and indicators tests.
o Other test requirements.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the Bow
Loading System (BLS), including:
o BLS coupler valve tightness tests.
o Coupler and inboard valve closing-time checks.
o BLS operator console alarm and indicators tests.
o Other test requirements.
o Arrangements for flushing and gas-freeing the bow cargo piping.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation, inspection,
testing and maintenance of the BLS.
• There were no records, or records were incomplete, of inspection, testing and maintenance of the BLS
including:
o BLS coupler valve tightness tests before each loading operation.
o Coupler and inboard valve closing-time checks.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o BLS operator console alarm and indicators tests.
o Other test requirements.
• The BLS area was not free of oil.
• Arrangements for draining the manifold room were inadequate.
• The controls, alarms and/or indicators of the forward BLS operator console were defective in any respect.
• Where fitted, there was no means of monitoring and verifying the status of the pressure relief arrangements.
• Access doors to the bow loading area were not self-closing or were lashed open.
• The audible and/or visible alarms for the air lock doors to the bow loading area were defective in any
respect.
• An item(s) of the required equipment in the watchman’s cabin was missing or defective e.g., fire
extinguisher, EEBDs.
• The bow door(s) were not provided with:
o Appropriate railing and securing wires for use when the door is used as a working platform.
o A detachable rail installed across the opening when the door is open.
• The condition of the hydraulic room was unsatisfactory in any respect, e.g., hydraulic leaks.
• Where fitted, the condition of the electrical equipment room was unsatisfactory in any respect, e.g., hydraulic
piping passed through the room.
• The BLS was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
