## Question 8.7.6

**Paragraph Number:**
8.7.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the fixed foam fire extinguishing system in the bow loading system (BLS) area, and was
the equipment in good working order and regularly inspected, tested and maintained?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Cargo Control Room, Bow Loading Area
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
Norwegian Oil and Gas recommended guidelines for offshore loading shuttle tankers Guideline No. 140
OCIMF Guidelines for Offshore Tanker Operations

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that those measures specifically designed to prevent or extinguish fires in the BLS area of shuttle
tankers are effective.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance
of the BLS fixed foam fire extinguishing system.
• Inspect the space(s) containing the BLS fixed foam fire extinguishing system foam concentrate tanks(s) and
pump(s) and verify that:
o The system operating instructions were posted near the control panel and in the space(s)
containing the BLS foam system foam concentrate tanks(s) and pump(s).
o The system valves were clearly identified, and the system instructions indicated their required
status in the standby and operational conditions.
o A copy of the foam concentrate annual test certificate indicated that it was fit for continued use.
o The foam tank was filled to the required level.
• Inspect the BLS fixed foam fire extinguishing system control panel on the bridge and verify that:
o The system operating instructions were posted near the system control panel.
o The remote control of the forward monitor was functioning correctly.
• Inspect the BLS fixed foam fire extinguishing system piping, monitor(s), applicator(s) and isolating valves.
• Where safe to do so, operate an isolating valve and monitor to verify that they are free to move through their
full range.
• Review inspection and servicing data available in the space.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out contained in the
maintenance plan, including annual foam concentrate test results.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose and operation of the BLS fixed
foam fire extinguishing system with reference to:
o Extinguishing spill fires.
o Precluding ignition of spilt oil, not yet ignited.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance of the BLS fixed foam fire
extinguishing system.
• The vessel’s maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances.
• The records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the BLS fixed foam fire extinguishing
system, including annual foam concentrate test results.
• The system manual showing the quantity of foam concentrate required to be in the storage tank to meet the
system design criteria.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for the operation, inspection and maintenance of the BLS fixed foam fire
extinguishing system.
• The BLS fixed foam fire extinguishing system operating instructions were not posted near the control panel
and in the space(s) containing the BLS foam system foam concentrate tanks(s) and pump(s).
• The valves and/or system controls were not clearly identified to their purpose and required status during
system operation.
• The foam storage tank was not filled to the required level.
• The foam concentrate test had not been carried out within the required time frame.
• The foam concentrate test certificate indicated that the foam was not fit for continued use.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose and operation of the vessel’s BLS fixed foam
fire extinguishing system.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances available.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include the vessel’s BLS fixed foam fire extinguishing system or all the required inspections, tests and
maintenance.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out were incomplete, including the required foam
concentrate tests.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems
and fire-fighting systems and appliances.
• Inspection of the vessel’s BLS fixed foam fire extinguishing system indicated that actions recorded in the
plan had not in fact taken place.
• The BLS fixed foam fire extinguishing system isolation valves or monitors were not free to move through
their full range of motion.
• The BLS fixed foam fire extinguishing system was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
