## Question 8.7.1

**Paragraph Number:**
8.7.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the purpose and operation of the
vessel’s Emergency Shut Down (ESD) systems, and was the equipment in good working
order, regularly inspected, tested and maintained?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Cargo Control Room, Bow Loading Area
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
Norwegian Oil and Gas recommended guidelines for offshore loading shuttle tankers Guideline No. 140
OCIMF Guidelines for Offshore Tanker Operations

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the vessel is able to execute a controlled ESD 1 or ESD 2 operation.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures that defined the operation, inspection,
maintenance and testing of the ESD systems.
• Sight and review the checklists used to prepare/test the ESD systems.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, maintenance and tests carried out contained within the
planned maintenance system.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation, and testing of the
ESD systems with particular emphasis on the sequence and timing of the ESD system actions.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The company procedures for operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the ESD systems.
• Completed checklists for the preparation/testing of the ESD systems.
• The inspection, maintenance and test records for the ESD systems.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures that defined the operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the
ESD systems.
• There were no checklists available for preparation/testing of the ESD systems.
• The ESD systems had not been tested as required by company procedures.
• The vessel’s planned maintenance system did not include the ESD systems or the required inspections,
maintenance and tests.
• Records of inspections, maintenance and tests carried out were incomplete.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose, operation and testing of the ESD systems.
• The responsible officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the ESD system.
• Inspection of the ESD systems indicated that actions recorded in the maintenance plan had not in fact taken
place.
• Either or both of the ESD systems were defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
