## Question 8.7.7

**Paragraph Number:**
8.7.7

---

### **Question**
Are all items of DP equipment in satisfactory condition and are they included in the
Planned Maintenance System (PMS)?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Cargo Control Room, Engine Control Room, Chief Engineer's Office
Publications
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure all DP systems and sub-systems are maintained in good working order.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Refer to the FME(C)A to identify the systems and sub-systems that make up the DP system.
• Select three sample items of equipment from the FME(C)A and verify that they are included in the PMS.
• Review the latest shore maintenance reports for the DP system and note any recommendations or
deficiencies recorded.
• Review the DP data log and alarm history and note any malfunctions recorded.
• Review the DP log book and note any malfunctions recorded.
• Interview the accompanying officer and confirm the status of any malfunctioning equipment identified.
• Verify that any defective equipment identified has been entered in the vessel’s Defect List.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Planned Maintenance System.
• FME(C)A.
• DP log book.
• DP data log.
• Shore maintenance reports.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• An item of DP equipment was defective in any respect.
• An item of DP equipment (give details) was not included in the Planned Maintenance System.
• A necessary task (give details) was not included in the Planned Maintenance System, e.g., calibration of
thrusters, routine rebooting of computer systems.
• Necessary data (give details) was not included in the Planned Maintenance System, e.g., battery expiry
dates.
• Maintenance tasks associated with DP equipment were overdue or deferred without shore authorisation.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
