## Question 8.7.2

**Paragraph Number:**
8.7.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures, including
appropriate arrival checklists, detailing the necessary checks and actions to be carried
out when approaching an offshore terminal prior to DP and/or bow loading operations,
and had these procedures been complied with?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Cargo Control Room, Engine Control Room, Bow Loading Area
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF Guidelines for Offshore Tanker Operations
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1580 Guidelines for vessels and units with dynamic positioning (DP) systems

---

### **Objective**
To ensure DP and bow loading shuttle tankers carry out all necessary checks and actions when approaching
offshore terminals.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures, including appropriate arrival checklists,
detailing the necessary checks and actions to be carried out when approaching an offshore terminal prior to
DP and /or bow loading operations.
• Review completed arrival checklists for the previous two offshore loading operations.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures and arrival
checklists.
• Select two items from any of the arrival checklists in use and verify that the accompanying officer was
familiar with the tests or checks required to be completed.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures, including appropriate arrival checklists, detailing the necessary checks and actions to
be carried out when approaching an offshore terminal prior to DP and /or bow loading operations.
• Completed arrival checklists.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures detailing the necessary checks and actions to be carried out when
approaching an offshore terminal prior to DP and /or bow loading operations.
• The company procedures detailing the necessary checks and actions to be carried out when approaching an
offshore terminal prior to DP and /or bow loading operations did not include appropriate arrival checklists.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures detailing the necessary checks and
actions to be carried out when approaching an offshore terminal prior to DP and /or bow loading operations.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company checklists used when approaching an offshore
terminal.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with any actions they were responsible for completing or verifying
within the checklists used when approaching an offshore terminal.
• Records indicated that arrival checklists:
o Had not been utilised.
o Had not been fully completed.
• Checklists in use were insufficiently detailed or insufficiently ship-specific.
• There was no evidence that a defect or malfunction identified when completing an arrival checklist had been
reported to the offshore terminal and to the vessel operator as appropriate.
• Review of completed checklists indicated that although a defect or malfunction had been identified, the
vessel had proceeded in contravention of FSOG or ASOG.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
