## Question 8.7.8

**Paragraph Number:**
8.7.8

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the vessel’s DP FMEA, was the latest
version available on board, and were any modifications to the DP system included?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Bridge, Engine Control Room, Chief Engineer's Office
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1580 Guidelines for vessels and units with dynamic positioning (DP) systems
IMCA: M 166 Rev. 2 October 2019 – Guidance on Failure Modes and Effects Analysis (FMEA)
IMCA: M 190 Guidance for Developing and Conducting Annual DP Trials Programmes for DP Vessels. Rev 2.1

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the FMEA is properly managed and that the appropriate vessel personnel are familiar with its
contents.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight and review the FMEA, including:
o Results of proving trials.
o Whether recorded technical queries after proving trials had been effectively closed out, and the
method of close out.
o Record of any modifications to the onboard DP systems.
o The FMEA revision history.
o Fail-safe condition of thrusters.
o Relevant failure modes associated with closed bus tiebreaker operation.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the FMEA, including for example:
o Actions to be taken in the event of a given DP system or sub-system failure.
o The fail-safe condition of thrusters i.e. ‘fail as set’, ‘fail to zero thrust’ or ‘propeller stop’.
o Relevant failure modes associated with closed bus tiebreaker operation.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The latest FMEA document, and associated documents.
• The Planned Maintenance System (PMS).

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures to ensure that the:
o FMEA is reviewed and updated as required due to changes in operating procedures or
modifications to DP hardware and/or software.
o Latest copy of the FMEA is available on board.
o Master, DPOs and engineers are familiar with the content of the FMEA.
• The FMEA was not identified as a controlled document within the vessels quality management system or
include a revision history.
• The FMEA was not written in the working language of the ship.
• The latest FMEA report and associated documents were not available on board.
• Technical queries recorded in the FMEA after proving trials had not been effectively closed out.
• On a newly delivered vessel, FMEA proving trials had not been carried out.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The FMEA had not been:
o carried out by an authorised organisation.
o reviewed and updated as required due to changes in operating procedures or modifications to DP
hardware and/or software.
o systematically tested, reviewed, and verified over a five year period.
• Where the vessel is permitted to operate with closed bus tie in accordance with a field operators manual or
local regulations, the FMEA did not include analysis of the relevant failure modes associated with closed bus
tiebreaker operation.
• Thruster failure modes did not meet accepted requirements to ‘fail as set’, ‘fail to zero thrust’ or ‘propeller
stop’.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the FMEA, including for example:
o Actions to be taken in the event of a given DP system or sub-system failure.
o The fail-safe condition of thrusters i.e. ‘fail as set’, ‘fail to zero thrust’ or ‘propeller stop’.
o Relevant failure modes associated with closed bus tiebreaker operation.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
