## Question 8.7.5

**Paragraph Number:**
8.7.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the deluge system in the bow loading system (BLS) area, and was the equipment in good
working order, regularly inspected, tested and maintained?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Bow Loading Area, Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
Norwegian Oil and Gas recommended guidelines for offshore loading shuttle tankers Guideline No. 140
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that those measures specifically designed to prevent or extinguish fires in the BLS area of shuttle
tankers are effective.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures that defined the operation and maintenance of
the BLS deluge system.
• Inspect the dedicated operator panels for the BLS deluge system on the bridge and in the watchman’s
cabin.
• Inspect the piping and control valves for the BLS deluge system and, if safe to do so, verify that control
valves can be manually operated freely.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests, and maintenance carried out on the BLS deluge
system contained within the maintenance plan.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation, and testing of the
BLS deluge system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the testing, maintenance and operation of the BLS deluge system.
• The manufacturer’s instruction manuals for the BLS deluge system.
• The maintenance and test records for the BLS deluge system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure for the testing, maintenance and operations of the BLS deluge system.
• Operating instructions for the BLS deluge system were not posted close to the operator panels.
• There was no maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and
appliances available.
• The maintenance plan for the vessel’s fire protection systems and fire-fighting systems and appliances did
not include the BLS deluge system or the required inspections, tests and maintenance.
• Records of inspections, tests and maintenance carried out on the BLS deluge system were incomplete.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the purpose and operation of the BLS deluge system.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the maintenance plan for the BLS deluge system.
• Inspection of the BLS deluge system indicated that actions recorded in the maintenance plan had not in fact
taken place.
• The BLS deluge system was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
