## Question 8.7.9

**Paragraph Number:**
8.7.9

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the location, purpose and operation of
the gas and fire detection systems in the bow loading system (BLS) area, and was the
equipment in good working order, regularly tested, maintained and calibrated?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bow Loading Area, Bridge, Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1432 Revised guidelines for the maintenance and inspection of fire protection systems and
appliances.
Norwegian Oil and Gas recommended guidelines for offshore loading shuttle tankers Guideline No. 140
OCIMF Guidelines for Offshore Tanker Operations
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that those measures specifically designed to prevent or extinguish fires in the Bow Loading
System (BLS) area of shuttle tankers are effective.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance
of the fire and hydrocarbon gas detection and alarm systems fitted in the BLS area.
• Inspect the central control station for the BLS gas detection system and verify that:
o The gas detecting system was fully operational.
o The system was not indicating any faults.
o The alarm activation settings were in accordance with company procedures.
• Review the inspection and calibration data for the BLS gas detecting system available in the cargo control
room and verify that:
o Each gas detector sensor had been calibrated at the frequency defined by the company.
o The associated alarms had been tested at the frequency defined by the company.
• Inspect the fire detection control panel and verify that:
o The system was fully operational.
o The system was not indicating any faults.
• Review the test data for the fire detection system and verify that:
o Flame and smoke detectors had been tested as required by company procedures.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, tests, calibration and maintenance carried out contained
within the maintenance plan.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation, calibration and
testing of the fire and hydrocarbon gas detection and alarm systems fitted in the BLS area.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance of the fire and hydrocarbon gas
detection and alarm systems fitted in the BLS area.
• The manufacturer’s instruction manuals for the fire and hydrocarbon gas detection and alarm systems fitted
in the BLS area.
• The maintenance, calibration and test records for the fire and hydrocarbon gas detection and alarm systems
fitted in the BLS area.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection and maintenance of the fire and
hydrocarbon gas detection and alarm systems fitted in the BLS area.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the operation and maintenance of the fire and hydrocarbon
gas detection and alarm systems fitted in the BLS area.
• The alarm activation set point of one or more gas sensors was not in accordance with company procedures.
• The gas detecting sensors had not been calibrated in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions at the
frequency defined by the company.
• The associated alarms and signals had not been tested at the frequency defined by the company.
• The calibration gas used for calibration of the hydrocarbon sensors was out of date or not appropriate for
use with the system.
• Flame and smoke detectors had not been tested as required by company procedures.
• One or more smoke, flame or hydrocarbon gas sensors was out of service.
• The gas detecting system in the BLS area was defective in any respect.
• The fire detection system in the BLS area was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
8.8. OBO / Combination Carriers
