## Question 8.7.3

**Paragraph Number:**
8.7.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the equipment for control and monitoring
of the Bow Loading System (BLS), and was the equipment in good working order,
regularly inspected, tested and maintained?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Cargo Control Room, Bow Loading Area
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
Norwegian Oil and Gas recommended guidelines for offshore loading shuttle tankers Guideline No. 140

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vessel’s telemetry and green line systems will safely start, control and stop cargo transfer
operations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance and
testing of the equipment for control and monitoring of the BLS.
• Sight, and where necessary review, the FMEA report for the cargo loading system and BLS.
• If necessary, review the records of inspections, maintenance and tests carried out contained within the
planned maintenance system.
• Review completed checklists for the regular testing/preparation of the BLS including the telemetry system
and green line system.
• Review test/calibration records of the tension monitoring load cells, and where fitted, cargo flow meter.
• Review the BLS data logger records if readily available.
• Inspect the:
o BLS operator panel.
o BLS data logger.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the purpose, operation and testing of the
equipment for control and monitoring of the BLS with particular emphasis on the:
o Green line and telemetry systems.
o Green line input sensors.
o BLS and cargo system interlocks.
o FMEA report for the cargo loading system and BLS.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the equipment for control
and monitoring of the BLS.
• FMEA report for the cargo loading system and BLS.
• The inspection, maintenance and test records for the equipment for control and monitoring of the BLS.
• Completed checklists for the regular testing/preparation of the BLS including the telemetry system and green
line system.
• Test/calibration records of the tension monitoring load cells, and where fitted, the cargo flow meter.
• BLS data logger records.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the equipment
for control and monitoring of the BLS which set out:
o Guidance on the use of the telemetry and green line systems to ensure safe start, control and
stopping of cargo transfer offshore.
o The actions to take in the event of a green line failure (GLF).
o The frequency and method of inspection, maintenance and testing of the telemetry and green line
systems, including sensors e.g., tension monitoring load cells, and where fitted, the cargo flow
meter.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the:
o Functions of the green line and telemetry systems.
o Actions to take in the event of a green line failure.
o Input sensors to the green line system.
o FMEA report for the cargo loading system and BLS.
• There was no FMEA report available for the cargo loading system and BLS.
• The tension monitoring information was not readable from the BLS operator panel and the DP console(s).
• The tension monitoring load cells had not been calibrated as required by company procedures.
• There was no on board equipment for the calibration of the tension load cells.
• Where fitted, the cargo flow control meter had not been tested/calibrated as required by company
procedures.
• The BLS operator panel was not installed next to the DP manoeuvring stations.
• The company procedures did not include checklists for the regular testing/preparation of the following
equipment:
o Telemetry systems.
o Green line systems.
o GLF (Green Line Failure) input sensors, e.g., chain stopper tension, hose in position, cargo system
ready, DP/vessel positioning, crude oil pressure high, hydraulic system pressure/accumulated
pressure, hose tension.
• The equipment for control and monitoring of the BLS was defective in any respect.
• The green line system was defective in some respect, but observation/records showed it had been
overridden to allow cargo operations to be carried out.
• The equipment for control and monitoring of the BLS was not included in the onboard planned maintenance
system.
• There was no BLS data logger fitted.
• There were no BLS data logger records available.
• The BLS data logger was defective in any respect.
• The BLS data logger did not record the following:
o Hose tension.
o Hawser tension.
o Status/operation of all equipment in the “green line” system.
o All operator commands/warnings/alarms generated by the BLS control system.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
