## Question 8.8.1

**Paragraph Number:**
8.8.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
operation, inspection, maintenance and testing of the cargo hold hatch-covers, and were
the hatch covers in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the cargo hold hatch-covers of combination carriers are properly maintained and gas tight.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and if necessary, review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance, and
testing of the cargo hold hatch-covers.
• Review the records of inspection, maintenance and testing of the cargo hold hatch-covers.
• Review risk assessments pertaining to any gas or liquid leaks from the hatch-covers.
• Inspect the hatch-covers, paying particular attention to the:
o Sealing arrangements.
o P/V valves, where fitted to the hatch-covers.
o The corners of hatch coamings and adjacent decks.
o Any damage to the hatch-covers or coamings etc caused by discharging equipment.
o The hatch-cover hydraulic systems.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the operation,
inspection, maintenance, and testing of the cargo hold hatch-covers.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance, and testing of the cargo hold hatch-covers.
• Records of inspection, maintenance and testing of the cargo hold hatch-covers.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Risk assessments pertaining to any gas or liquid leaks from the hatch-covers.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, maintenance, and testing of the cargo
hold hatch-covers.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation, inspection,
maintenance, and testing of the cargo hold hatch-covers.
• The accompanying officer was not aware of the optimum tank atmosphere pressure range to maintain an
effective hatch seal.
• The sealing arrangements of the hatch-covers were not of the dual-seal type.
• The hatch-covers were not included in the vessel’s maintenance plan.
• The hatch-covers were not subject to regular inspection, with the results recorded.
• There was ongoing gas and/or liquid leakage from the flanges of the P/V valves fitted on top of the hatch-
covers.
• The hatch-cover sealing arrangements had not been pressure tested using inert gas prior to loading a liquid
cargo.
• There was ongoing gas and/or liquid leakage from the sealing arrangements of the hatch-covers.
• Ongoing gas and/or liquid leakage from the hatch-covers had not been subject to risk assessment.
• There was oil leakage from the hatch-cover hydraulic system.
• There was visible cracking at the corner of a hatch-coaming or in the adjacent deck.
• There was unrepaired grab damage to the hatch-covers or coamings.
Note: Any physical defects observed should also be considered under Questions 2.4.1 and/or 2.4.2 Defect Reporting
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
