## Question 8.8.2

**Paragraph Number:**
8.8.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for changing
cargo modes, including ship-specific checklists, and were there records to show that
these procedures had been followed?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the changeover from wet to dry and vice versa in combination carriers is carried out safely and
that all the necessary actions are completed.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and if necessary, review, the company procedures for changing cargo mode from wet to dry and vice
versa.
• Review records of cargo mode changeovers, including completed checklists.
• Review records of hold inspections and corrective actions taken, if required, after the carriage of dry cargoes
with regard to damage caused by discharging equipment.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures, including
appropriate checklists, for changing cargo mode from wet to dry and vice versa.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Company procedures for changing cargo mode from wet to dry and vice versa.
• Records of cargo mode changeovers, including completed checklists.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Records of hold inspections prior to changeover.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for changing cargo mode from wet to dry and vice versa.
• The procedures for changing cargo mode from wet to dry and vice versa did not include ship-specific
checklists to facilitate the changeover.
• The ship-specific cargo mode changeover checklists had not been completed as required by company
procedures.
• There were no records available of previous cargo mode changeovers.
• Records showed that the company procedures had not been followed during a previous cargo mode
changeover.
• There were no records of hold inspections and corrective actions taken prior to cargo mode changeover.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for changing cargo mode from wet
to dry and vice versa.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
8.99. All types
