## Question 8.99.11

**Paragraph Number:**
8.99.11

---

### **Question**
Was there a procedure in place to complete an independent check of the entire
cargo liquid, vapour and venting pipeline system prior to commencement of cargo
operations to ensure that valves, vacuum breakers, sampling connections, drains and
unused connections or interconnections were correctly set, and blanked or capped,
where appropriate?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition
IMO: ISM Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the entire cargo system integrity and line up is independently verified by a second person
before every cargo operation.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures to ensure that that the entire cargo liquid,
vapour and venting pipeline system is independently cross-checked by a second person under the control of
the responsible officer prior to commencement of cargo operations.
• Review the cargo records for a recent cargo operation and verify that the independent cross-checks on the
entire cargo liquid, vapour and venting pipeline system had been completed and documented in accordance
with the company procedure.
• During the course of the inspection, verify that all cargo pipeline system drains, stub pieces, sampling
connections and vacuum breakers were closed and capped or blanked as necessary.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The procedure and process to ensure that that the entire cargo liquid, vapour and venting pipeline
system is independently cross-checked by a second person under the control of the responsible
officer prior to commencement of cargo operations.
o Who was required to conduct the independent cross-checks in accordance with the company
procedure.
o How and where the result of the independent cross-check was recorded.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures to ensure that that entire cargo liquid, vapour and venting pipeline system is
independently cross-checked by a second person under the control of the responsible officer prior to
commencement of cargo operations.
• Cargo records which demonstrated that the independent cross-checks of cargo system pipelines had been
completed and documented before cargo operations commenced.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures to ensure that that the entire cargo liquid, vapour and venting pipeline
system is independently cross-checked by a second person under the control of the responsible officer prior
to commencement of cargo operations.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures to ensure that that the entire cargo
liquid, vapour and venting pipeline system is independently cross-checked by a second person under the
control of the responsible officer prior to commencement of cargo operations.
• There was no documentary evidence that the independent cargo system pipeline cross-checks had been
completed before commencing cargo operations.
• The valve for a cargo pipeline drain, stub piece, sampling connection or vacuum breaker was not closed
during cargo operations.
• A cargo pipeline system drain, stub piece, sampling connection or vacuum breaker was not fitted with a
valve.
• A cargo pipeline system drain, stub piece, sampling connection or vacuum breaker was not capped or
blanked as necessary during cargo operations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
9. Mooring and Anchoring
9.1. Mooring Equipment Management
