## Question 8.99.2

**Paragraph Number:**
8.99.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and all officers with a direct responsibility for cargo, tank
cleaning or ballast operations familiar with the requirements of the ISGOTT Ship/Shore
Safety Checklist (SSSCL) and, were appropriate sections of the SSSCL in use with all
applicable provisions and agreements maintained throughout?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Pumproom, Compressor Room, Main Deck, Mooring Decks
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**


---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which required the relevant sections of a
SSSCL in accordance with ISGOTT Sixth Edition to be completed during every cargo, tank cleaning or
ballast operation at a terminal or during defined ship to ship transfer operations.
• Review the sections of the SSSCL that had been completed and were in use to monitor the ongoing
operation and for each checklist:
o Select at least one item and request that an officer having responsibility for cargo operations
describes how the check is performed or documented.
o Select at least one item that required some form of documented evidence and verify that the
evidence was available.
o Compare the SSSCL remarks against the list of open defect reports recorded in the defect
reporting system as provided by the vessel during the opening meeting and verify that any
defective equipment relevant to the SSSCL had been declared appropriately.
• Review Part 6, pre-transfer agreements, of the SSSCL and:
o Verify that each agreement had been properly completed if it was applicable to the operation.
o Select any two items and verify that the agreements had been understood and complied with
during the operations to that point.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Verify that the cargo and ballast transfer plan had been updated to reflect the agreements
documented in the pre-transfer conference.
• Review Part 8, repetitive checks during and after transfer and verify that:
o Repetitive checks were being completed in accordance with the pre-transfer agreement.
o A responsible officer had conducted the repetitive checks on deck at least once during each watch
period.
• During the balance of the inspection verify that all items included in the relevant sections of the SSSCL and
agreed during the pre-transfer conference were maintained in compliance with the guidance provided in
ISGOTT Sixth Edition.
Where the inspection was being conducted at anchor or idle, the inspector should review the SSSCL used during a
recent cargo operation and compare the responses in the SSSCL with Bridge Log Book and cargo records.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which required the relevant sections of a SSSCL in accordance with ISGOTT Sixth
Edition to be completed during every cargo, tank cleaning or ballast operation at a terminal or during defined
ship to ship transfer operations.
• The SSSCL for the ongoing operations and for at least two previous operations.
• Cargo operational records for the ongoing operation and at least two previous operations.
• The Bridge Log Book.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which required the relevant sections of a SSSCL in accordance with
ISGOTT Sixth Edition to be completed during every cargo, tank cleaning or ballast operation at a terminal or
during defined ship to ship transfer operations.
• The relevant sections of the SSSCL in use were not in alignment with the guidance provided in ISGOTT
Sixth Edition.
• The sections of the SSSCL relevant to the operation being undertaken or reviewed had not been completed
or were not in use.
• There were open defect reports for equipment or systems relevant to the SSSCL which had not been
brought to the attention of the Terminal Representative through a documented remark in the relevant
sections of the SSSCL.
• Inspection of the vessel determined that equipment or systems relevant to the SSSCL were defective and
there was neither an open defect report in the defect reporting system nor a documented remark in the
relevant sections of the SSSCL.
• Items in the relevant SSSCL checklists had been answered as "yes" when there was evidence that the item
reported on was not in accordance with the referenced guidance provided in ISGOTT Sixth Edition.
• The vessel was found to be violating any of the documented agreements identified in SSSCL Part 6, tanker
and terminal pre-transfer agreements.
• The cargo and ballast transfer plan had not been updated, where required, to reflect the documented
agreements reached during the tanker and terminal pre-transfer meeting.
• Inspection of the vessel determined that any item included in SSSCL Part 8, repetitive checks was not
maintained in the required condition.
• The accompanying officer or any officer having a responsibility for cargo operations was unfamiliar with the
relevant sections of the SSSCL applicable to the vessel or any check or declaration made therein.
• A responsible officer had not conducted the repetitive checks required by the SSSCL Part 8 on deck at least
once during each cargo watch period.
Where the vessel was in breach of the conditions of the SSSCL and an observation is being considered, the
inspector should be guided by the ISGOTT6 references provided within the SSSCL. For specific Gas and Chemical
cargo related concerns, the inspector should be guided by the relevant Chemical or Liquid Gas Safety Guides
produced by the ICS.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
