## Question 8.99.6

**Paragraph Number:**
8.99.6

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and deck officers familiar with the company procedure and
manufacturer’s instructions for the periodic testing of the stability and loading
instrument(s), and were records maintained to confirm that tests had been completed in
accordance with the procedure?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: MARPOL
IACS: Unified Requirement S1 Requirements for the Loading Conditions
Loading Manuals and Loading Instruments
IMO: IGC Code
IMO: IBC Code
IMO: ISM Code
IACS: Unified Requirements L5 Computer Software for Onboard Stability Calculations

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vessel’s stability and loading instrument(s) provides accurate stress and stability
calculations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the testing of the stability and loading
instrument.
• Review a recent test of the stability and loading instrument and verify that the condition used was an
approved test condition and that the test was conducted in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
• Verify that the stability and loading instrument had been tested at Special Survey in the presence of a class
surveyor.
• Verify that the accompanying officer was able to demonstrate the damage stability function of the
instrument.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the management and testing of the stability and loading instrument.
• The stability and loading instrument instruction manual.
• The records for the regular tests of the stability and loading instrument accuracy by vessel staff.
• The records for the annual tests of the stability and loading instrument at the time of annual survey.
• The records for the tests in the presence of a class surveyor at the time of special survey.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Where a vessel was exempt from carrying a stability and/or loading instrument under IMO regulations or
class requirements, a copy of the appropriate certificate indicating that the instrument was not required.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure requiring the periodic testing of the vessel’s loading instrument.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedures or the manufacturer’s instructions for
testing the loading instrument.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the damage stability functions of the loading instrument.
• The vessel had not completed the periodic verification of the loading instrument accuracy in accordance with
the company procedures or the manufacturer’s instructions.
• Records were not available for the periodic verification of the loading instrument accuracy.
• Records were not available for the verification of the loading instrument accuracy at Special Survey in the
presence of a Class Surveyor.
• The loading instrument in use was defective in any respect.
• The vessel did not have a loading instrument but there was no clear evidence that the vessel was exempt
from the requirement to carry such a device.
Where the vessel was exempt from carrying a loading instrument, provide details of why the vessel was exempt as a
comment within the hardware response tool
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
