## Question 8.99.1

**Paragraph Number:**
8.99.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and all officers directly involved in cargo transfer operations
familiar with the company procedure for planning cargo and ballast transfers, and were
records available to demonstrate that cargo operations had been planned in accordance
with the company procedure and conducted in accordance with the agreed plan?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure cargo and ballast transfer operations are planned and conducted in accordance with company
procedures and industry best practice guidance.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review the company procedures for planning cargo and ballast transfers.
• Review a recent cargo and ballast transfer plan and verify that it:
o Contained the information required by the company procedures.
o Included draught, trim and stress calculations for key stages of the cargo and ballast operation.
o Was signed by the Chief Officer, deck officers and, where necessary, engineer officers for
understanding.
o Was signed by the Master for approval.
o Was signed by the Terminal Representative.
• Review the records of the same cargo and ballast operation and verify that:
o The sequence of cargo and ballast transfer followed the plan as presented.
o The atmosphere of the cargo tanks was maintained according to the plan.
o The venting or vapour management system was used in accordance with the plan.
o Crude oil washing or other specialist cargo operations were completed in accordance with the plan.
o Requests for increasing and decreasing cargo transfer rates were noted with confirmation that the
requested rate was achieved.
o Sufficient detail was included within the aggregated cargo records to reconstruct the progress of
the cargo operation and determine which tanks, pumps and lines were involved at any point during
a cargo transfer.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for planning cargo and ballast transfers.
• The company procedures for cargo and ballast operation record keeping.
• The plans for recent cargo and ballast transfer operations.
• The records for recent cargo and ballast transfer operations.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure:
o That required cargo and ballast transfer plans to be prepared with defined content applicable to the
vessel type and the equipment and systems fitted.
o Which defined the record-keeping requirements for cargo and ballast transfer operations.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the:
o Company procedures for cargo and ballast transfer planning.
o Company requirements for maintaining records of cargo and ballast operations.
• The reviewed cargo and ballast transfer plan was:
o Missing key information required by the company procedures.
o Missing draught, trim and stress calculations at key stages of the cargo and ballast operation.
o Not signed by all deck officers and, where required, engineer officers and/or was not approved by
the Master.
• Where the cargo and/or ballast sequence or operations had to be updated due to changes in circumstances,
the cargo and ballast transfer plan had not been updated and then re-approved by the Master and
acknowledged by the officers involved in the cargo/ballast operation.
• The reviewed cargo and ballast transfer records:
o Indicated that the cargo and ballast plan was not followed.
o Indicated that cargo-related operations were conducted which were not included in the cargo and
ballast transfer plan.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Did not comply with company record keeping requirements.
o Did not include sufficient detail, within the aggregated cargo records, to reconstruct the progress of
the cargo operation and determine which tanks, pumps and lines were involved at any point during
a cargo transfer.
• The cargo space venting or tank atmosphere management was not conducted in accordance with the cargo
plan.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
