## Question 8.99.7

**Paragraph Number:**
8.99.7

---

### **Question**
Where the vessel was subject to loading restrictions and/or intact stability
concerns at any phase of a voyage or cargo operation, had the company developed
procedures to manage these restrictions and/or concerns, and were the Master and
cargo officers familiar with the company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: ISM Code
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vessel is never loaded in such a manner that any structural limitations are exceeded due
to tank filling level, or intact stability is compromised by unmanaged free surface effect.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the vessel loading and stability manual, identify whether the vessel was subject to any loading
restrictions or stability concerns and verify that the vessel operator’s declaration in the pre-inspection
questionnaire was correct.
• Where the vessel was subject to loading limitations or stability concerns, review the company procedures
that addressed the issues and verify that:
o Cargo and ballast plans had been developed to address the loading limitations or stability
concerns.
o Warning signs had been posted to inform the cargo officers of the loading limitations and/or stability
concerns.
o Cargo and ballast records confirmed that the company procedures relating to the limitations and
concerns had been complied with.
• Where a vessel had undergone any weight variations, such as the installation of a scrubber or ballast water
treatment plant or, major structural modifications, verify that the loading instrument and stability booklet had
been updated as appropriate.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s loading and stability manual.
• The company procedures that addressed any loading limitations or stability concerns.
• Recent cargo plans and records to demonstrate that the company procedures to address any loading
limitations or stability concerns had been complied with.
• Evidence that the impact of any equipment installations or structural modifications had been assessed and
the loading instrument and stability manual updated as appropriate.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The vessel operator had not correctly declared any loading limitations or stability concerns applicable to the
vessel through the pre-inspection questionnaire.
• The vessel was subject to loading limitations or stability concerns, but the vessel operator had not
developed procedures to manage the issues onboard the vessel.
• The vessel was subject to loading limitations or stability concerns, but there were no warning signs posted to
notify the officers with cargo related responsibilities of the issues onboard the vessel.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the loading limitations or stability concerns applicable to the
vessel, where they existed.
• The cargo plans had not been developed to address loading limitations or stability concerns where they
existed.
• Vessel records determined that the guidance provided by the company procedure to address loading
limitations or stability concerns had not been complied with.
• The vessel had undergone weight variations due to the installation of a scrubber or ballast water treatment
system, or major structural modifications, but there was no evidence that the loading instrument and/or
stability booklet had been updated to take account of the changes where appropriate.
Where the vessel had been confirmed as not being subject to any loading limitations or stability concerns this
question should be answered as N/A under the Process response tool.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
