## Question 8.99.8

**Paragraph Number:**
8.99.8

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
selection, inspection, testing and storage of cargo transfer hoses, and were the hoses in
satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
USCG: Code of Federal Regulations. Title 33.
SIGTTO: Floating LNG installations 1st edition 2021
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IGC Code
IMO: IBC Code
OCIMF: Ship to Ship Transfer Guide for Petroleum
Chemicals and Liquefied Gases. First Edition.
OCIMF: Guidelines for the Handling
Storage
Use
Maintenance and Testing of STS Hoses. First Edition.
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure ship supplied cargo transfer hoses are always fit for purpose.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the selection, inspection, testing and
storage of cargo transfer hoses.
• Review the certificates, compatibility data, inspection records, service history and, hydrostatic and electrical
continuity test records for the cargo transfer hoses.
• Inspect ship supplied cargo transfer hoses which were either in use and/or stored onboard.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The company procedures for the selection, inspection, testing and storage of cargo transfer hoses.
o The inspections that must be conducted before a cargo transfer hose is used.
o Any limitations or special handling considerations for the hoses provided onboard.
o The records that must be maintained for cargo transfer usage.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the selection, inspection, testing, storage, and retirement of cargo transfer
hoses.
• Cargo transfer hose certificates and compatibility data.
• Inspection records.
• Hydrostatic, elongation and electrical continuity test records.
• Cargo transfer hose usage history.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the selection, inspection, testing, storage, and retirement of cargo
transfer hoses.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the selection, inspection,
testing, storage, and retirement of cargo transfer hoses.
• A ship supplied cargo transfer hose:
o Was not clearly marked with the required information.
o Had not been inspected within the last 12 months to confirm suitability for continued use.
o Had not been pressure tested within the last 12 months to confirm suitability for continued use.
o Had not been retired in accordance with the company set criteria.
o Had visual damage as detailed in the guidance but had not been withdrawn from service.
o Had not been tested for electrical continuity since the last hydrostatic test.
o Was not compatible with the cargo being handled and/or the cargo temperature.
o Had a maximum working pressure of less than 1MPa (approximately 145 psi or 10.2 kg/cm2).
o Was stored or used with a bend radius less than the minimum bend radius (MBR) information
provided by the manufacturer.
• It could not be confirmed if a ship supplied cargo transfer hose was compatible with the cargo being handled
and/or the cargo temperature.
• There was no:
o Record of the service history of ship supplied cargo transfer hoses.
o Valid certificate and/or documentation on board for a ship supplied cargo transfer hose.
o Documentary evidence for hydrostatic test data marked on a ship supplied cargo transfer hose.
o Record of the temporary and permanent elongation during pressure testing for each cargo transfer
hose.
• Cargo transfer hoses were stored in unsuitable conditions or in an unsuitable manner.
• Cargo transfer hoses on an LNG carrier had not been pressure tested prior to each use or in accordance
with an alternative documented procedure to ensure their integrity.
• Portable cargo pump hoses were:
o Damaged or in poor condition.
o Had not been tested and maintained in accordance with manufacturers guidelines.
• Flow rate through a cargo transfer hose exceeded the maximum permitted flow rate stated by the hose
manufacturer where flow rate was a limiting design factor.
• Ship supplied cargo transfer hoses were defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
