## Question 8.99.5

**Paragraph Number:**
8.99.5

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
operation, maintenance, testing, calibration and comparison of the fixed cargo tank level
gauging system, and was the system in satisfactory condition and fully operational?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IGC Code
IMO: IBC Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the fixed tank level gauging system is always fully operational, reliable and accurate.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, maintenance, testing,
calibration and comparison of the fixed tank level gauging system.
• Review the records of maintenance, testing, calibration, and comparison checks of the fixed tank level
gauge system.
• Request the accompanying officer to demonstrate the use of the fixed tank level gauging system to verify
operation and familiarity.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The company procedures for the operation, maintenance, testing, calibration and comparison
checks of the fixed tank level gauging system.
o The actions to take if the fixed gauging system or an individual cargo tank fixed gauging device is
defective or unreliable.
o The setting and monitoring of any level alarms built into the fixed tank level gauging system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, maintenance, testing, calibration and comparison checks of the
fixed tank level gauging system.
• The manufacturer’s instruction manual for the fixed tank level gauging system.
• Records of maintenance, testing, calibration, and comparison checks of the fixed tank level gauge system.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, maintenance, testing, calibration and comparison
checks of the fixed tank level gauging system based on the manufacturer’s instructions.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with:
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o The company procedures for the operation, maintenance, testing, calibration and comparison
checks of the fixed tank level gauging system.
o The actions to take if the fixed gauging system or an individual cargo tank fixed gauging device is
defective or unreliable.
o The setting and monitoring of any level alarms built into the fixed tank level gauging system.
• Testing and calibration of the fixed tank level gauging system had not been performed in accordance with
the company procedures and/or manufacturer’s instructions.
• There were no records available of testing and calibration of the fixed tank level gauging system.
• Fixed tank level gauges had not been regularly checked against portable equipment or secondary tank level
gauges, where practicable, and records of the comparison maintained.
• There were significant discrepancies in the comparison between the fixed tank level gauges and the
portable or secondary gauges.
• There was no procedure, based on risk assessment, to enable continued cargo transfer operations in the
event of a failure of the fixed tank level gauging system.
• The fixed tank level gauging system was inoperative, and gauging was being performed using portable
equipment.
• The fixed tank level gauging system was unreliable, and gauging was being performed using portable
equipment.
• Level alarms built into the fixed ullaging system, if any, were permanently silenced or inhibited
• The fixed tank level gauging system was defective in any respect.
Where the vessel was not fitted with fixed cargo tank level gauging equipment, select “Not Answerable” in each of
the response tools then select "Not Applicable - as instructed by question guidance.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
