## Question 8.99.3

**Paragraph Number:**
8.99.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures which
provided guidance on the level of supervision and support for cargo / port operations,
and were operations supervised and supported by an appropriate team in accordance
with the company procedures?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Main Deck, Cargo Control Room
Publications
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Gas) - Third Edition
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
OCIMF: Mooring Equipment Guidelines. Fourth Edition 2018 (MEG4)
ICS: Tanker Safety Guide (Chemicals) - Fifth Edition

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that there are always enough properly supervised personnel on duty for the management of cargo
operations, means of access, moorings and any other planned operations while in port or at a terminal.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures that provided guidance on the supervision and
support levels required during cargo / port operations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Review the cargo / port operations planning documentation for a recent cargo operation and verify that the
supervision and support levels identified for the various stages of the operation were in accordance with the
guidance provided by the company procedures.
• During the balance of the inspection verify that the supervision and support available for cargo / port
operations was maintained in accordance with the cargo / port planning documentation and the company
guidance for cargo operations team.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures that provided guidance on the supervision and support levels required during
cargo / port operations.
• The cargo / port planning documentation for the current operations and the previous three months or six
cargo / port operations whichever is the lesser.
• The Bridge Log Book.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures that provided guidance on the supervision and support levels required
during cargo / port operations.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures that provided guidance on the
supervision and support levels required during cargo / port operations.
• The cargo / port planning documentation did not include the level of supervision and support required during
the various stages of cargo / port operations.
• The cargo / port planning documentation was not developed in alignment with the company procedures that
provided guidance on the supervision and support levels required during cargo / port operations.
• The level of supervision and support in the cargo control room and on deck observed during the inspections
was not in alignment with the company procedures that provided guidance on the supervision and support
levels required during cargo / port operations.
• The cargo operation team supervisors and/or support were observed to be involved with a conflicting
operation (SIMOPS) and distracted from their designated duties documented within the cargo / port plans.
• Operations identified by the company procedures as requiring senior officer supervision, such as, crude oil
washing, commencing loading/discharging operations or completing loading/discharging operations were not
supervised as required.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
