## Question 8.99.4

**Paragraph Number:**
8.99.4

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for checking
and testing cargo and ballast system valves, and were the valves and the remote control
system in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Main Deck
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
SIGTTO: Liquified Gas Handling Principles on Ships and in Terminals. Fourth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that cargo and ballast system valves always operate as designed.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the regular checking and testing of cargo
and ballast system valves.
• Review the records for valve testing which included:
o The actual times recorded for opening and closing.
o The verification of the accuracy of local and remote valve indicators.
• During the course of the inspection, observe the operation of cargo and ballast system valves to verify their
condition and satisfactory operation.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with:
o The company procedures for the checking and testing of cargo and ballast system valves.
o The required times for opening and closing of each size, type and service of power operated valve
fitted in the cargo and ballast systems.
o The actions to take if the opening and closing times for cargo or ballast system valves were not in
accordance with the designed valve operating speed.
o The procedure to operate the emergency valve control mode and local hand pumps, as applicable
to the vessel.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the regular checking and testing of cargo and ballast system valves.
• The manufacturer's operation and maintenance manual for the power operated valves fitted in the cargo and
ballast systems.
• The ship's drawings which identified the design opening and closing times for each size, type and service of
power operated valve fitted in the cargo and ballast systems.
• Records of checks and tests of cargo and ballast system valves.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the regular checking and testing of cargo and ballast system valves
which included the:
o Frequency of checks and tests of cargo and ballast system valves.
o Records to be kept of checks and tests of cargo and ballast system valves.
o Procedure for checking of the time taken for power operated valves to move from open to closed,
and from closed to open, and the optimum times.
o Verification of the accuracy of local and remote valve indicators.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Procedure for testing the emergency valve control mode and local hand pumps, as applicable to
the vessel.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with:
o The company procedures for the regular checking and testing of cargo and ballast system valves.
o The emergency valve control mode and local hand pumps, as applicable to the vessel.
• There were no records of regular checking and testing of cargo and ballast system valves.
• Checks and tests of cargo and ballast system valves did not include:
o Checking and recording the time taken for power operated valves to move from open to closed,
and from closed to open.
o Verifying that the local and remote valve indicators were showing the correct position of the valve.
o Testing the emergency valve control mode and local hand pumps, as applicable to the vessel.
• Records indicated that power operated valves were not operating in the optimum times.
• A cargo or ballast system valve indicator was observed to be indicating the incorrect position of the valve.
(e.g. the valve signal was set to full open or full closed, but the valve indicator did not reflect the order by
showing an intermediate position or by continuing to flash).
• A hydraulically operated cargo or ballast system valve was isolated from the hydraulic system due to
suspected hydraulic leakage.
• A cargo or ballast system valve designed to be remotely operated was disconnected from the remote control
system and was being operated manually.
• The valve hydraulic system was not maintained at normal operating pressure during cargo transfer
operations due to suspected hydraulic oil leakage in the system.
• The valve hydraulic system or pneumatic system was not set to automatically maintain the normal system
operating pressure throughout cargo and ballast transfer operations.
• There was evidence of excessive hydraulic oil loss from the valve hydraulic system.
• A cargo or ballast system valve was observed to be defective in any respect.
• The cargo and ballast system valve remote control system was defective in any respect.
• There was no functional emergency valve control mode local hand pump available.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
