## Question 8.99.9

**Paragraph Number:**
8.99.9

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for
periodically verifying the accuracy of cargo and ballast system controls and indicators,
and were legible and up-to-date pipeline and/or mimic diagrams available at the cargo
control location(s) and in the pumproom(s) as applicable?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Engine Control Room, Cargo Control Room, Pumproom
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.

---

### **Objective**
To ensure accurate information and data is available to the officer in charge of cargo operations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight the pipeline and/or mimic diagrams in the cargo control room or cargo control position as appropriate.
• Inspect cargo and ballast system controls and indicators in the cargo control room / pump control station and
verify that:
o Where fitted, remote pressure indicators are connected and displaying a value which is appropriate
to the status and operation of the system or pipeline being monitored.
o Where fitted, remote temperature indicators are connected and displaying a value which is
appropriate to the status and operation of the system or pipeline being monitored.
o Where fitted, the draught, list and trim indicators are displaying an accurate value.
o Cargo and ballast pump speed controls are fully functional and that the pumps are being controlled
from the cargo control room / pump control station and not from the machinery space or locally.
o Cargo and ballast system mimic diagrams or displays, where fitted, are showing the correct status
of valves, pumps, temperatures, pressures, levels and any other monitoring function designed to be
displayed.
Where the vessel is provided with a cargo and/or ballast pumproom:
• Sight the pipeline and/or mimic diagrams
• Inspect the cargo and ballast system and verify that:
o Where fitted, pressure indicators are connected and displaying a value which is appropriate to the
status and operation of the system or pipeline being monitored.
o Where fitted, temperature indicators are connected and displaying a value which is appropriate to
the status and operation of the system or pipeline being monitored.
The degree of automation and monitoring provided on an inspected vessel will determine what will be in scope while
addressing this question. The following principle should be adopted:
• If a cargo or ballast system or plant monitoring device or system is provided, it should be functioning and
accurate.
• If the information from an individual monitoring device or system is transmitted to a central mimic diagram or
information display, then the information displayed should be accurate.
• If a cargo or ballast pump or component of plant is designed to be remotely controlled, then the remote
control and status indication should be functioning.
• Where a cargo or ballast system is designed to operate automatically then the system should be maintained
to permit automatic operation where required or permitted.
• Where isolated faults develop which cannot be rectified with the staff and resources available onboard, they
should be addressed through the defect reporting system.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which ensured that:
o All cargo and ballast system pressure, temperature and level sensors are periodically verified for
accuracy.
o Cargo information displays and mimics are checked periodically to verify that information is being
transferred and displayed correctly.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Cargo and ballast system controls incorporated into cargo information displays and mimics are
functioning properly.
• Cargo and ballast system plant and pipeline diagrams where no suitable mimic diagram or display was
available in the space.
• Records of periodic cargo and ballast system pressure sensor accuracy verification.
• Records of periodic cargo and ballast system temperature sensor accuracy verification.
• Records of periodic draught gauge accuracy verification.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• Legible and up to date pipeline and/or mimic diagrams were not available in the pumproom(s) and/or at the
cargo control location(s).
• Pipeline and/or mimic diagrams had not been updated to reflect modifications or additions to the pipeline
systems.
• Pipeline systems were not marked/identified consistently with the cargo systems mimic diagram or display.
• There was no company procedure which ensured that:
o All cargo and ballast system pressure, temperature and level sensors are periodically verified for
accuracy.
o Cargo information displays and mimics are checked periodically to verify that information is being
transferred and displayed correctly.
o Cargo and ballast system controls incorporated into cargo information displays and mimics are
functioning properly.
• There were no records for the periodic verification of sensor, information display, or cargo and ballast
system control accuracy and/or function checks.
• A cargo or ballast pump was being controlled from the machinery space or the main deck local control
station due to a defect in the remote control system.
• A cargo or ballast pump speed/electrical load indicator was inaccurate or out of service.
• The draught gauges were inaccurate.
• The local and/or remote pressure sensor displays for the cargo or ballast system/plant were inaccurate.
• The local and/or remote temperature sensor displays for the cargo or ballast system/plant were inaccurate.
• The cargo systems mimic diagram or display was indicating incorrect information such as:
o Cargo or ballast pump status.
o Cargo or ballast plant status.
o Cargo or ballast pipeline pressure or temperature.
o Draught, list or trim.
o Cargo tank level.
o Cargo tank pressure.
o Cargo tank temperature.
o Cargo and ballast valve remote control system hydraulic pressure.
o Cargo or ballast system valve position. (this includes manual indication)
o Inert gas system status.
o Inert gas system valve position. (this includes manual indication)
o The venting system valve position. (this includes manual indication)
o The stripping system valve position and status. (this includes manual indication)
o Cargo and ballast system alarms.
o Cargo system controls and indicators were defective in any respect.
Where a single sensor or remote display input was defective or inaccurate, but the issue was in the process of being
addressed through an open defect report, then no observation should be made.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
