## Question 8.99.10

**Paragraph Number:**
8.99.10

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers a familiar with the company procedures for the
inspection and maintenance of the bonding arrangements for independent cargo tanks,
process plant and cargo pipelines and, were these arrangements in satisfactory
condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Main Deck
Publications
OCIMF/ICS: International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals. Sixth Edition.
IMO: IGC Code
IMO: IBC Code
IACS: Requirements Concerning Electrical And Electronic Installations

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the earthing and bonding arrangements for the cargo tanks, process plant and piping systems on
board are maintained as required by class rules and international regulations.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the inspection and maintenance of the
bonding arrangements for independent cargo tanks, process plant and cargo pipelines.
• During the course of the inspection, examine visible bonding arrangements, such as bonding straps, for
cargo tanks/process plant/piping systems which are not permanently connected to the hull of the ship.
• Where the application of bonding straps or other forms of bonding was inconsistent or apparently missing,
review the ship’s drawings to confirm whether bonding straps or arrangements were required in the area of
concern.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their understanding of the bonding arrangements fitted to the
vessel and their purpose.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the inspection and maintenance of the bonding arrangements for independent
cargo tanks, process plant and cargo pipelines.
• The ship’s drawings or instruction books showing bonding arrangements as fitted.
• Records of inspections and maintenance of the bonding arrangements.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the inspection and maintenance of the bonding arrangements for
independent cargo tanks, process plant and cargo pipelines.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the inspection and maintenance
of the bonding arrangements for independent cargo tanks, process plant and cargo pipelines or the
particular arrangements on board the vessel.
• Bonding straps or other bonding arrangements, where required by the original vessel design, were:
o Missing
o Mechanically damaged
o Functionally compromised by high resistivity contamination e.g. corrosive products or paint.
o Coated in paint hampering effective inspection.
• Bonding arrangements were defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
