## Question 9.1.2

**Paragraph Number:**
9.1.2

---

### **Question**
Was the vessel satisfactorily moored in accordance with both the terminal mooring
plan and the mooring configurations permitted by the vessel’s Mooring System
Management Plan?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Cargo Control Room, Mooring Decks
Publications
OCIMF: Mooring Equipment Guidelines. Fourth Edition 2018 (MEG4)
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vessel is always moored safely in accordance with a terminal’s published mooring plan
and the acceptable mooring line configurations identified within the vessel’s Mooring System Management
Plan.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the Mooring System Management Plan and identify the permissible mooring configurations that may
be used by the vessel to meet optimal, sub-optimal and alternate mooring arrangements.
• Review the published terminal mooring plans for recent terminal visits and verify that there was a process to
confirm that the vessel could comply with both the terminal mooring layout and the mooring patterns
permitted by the Mooring System Management Plan.
• Where the vessel was moored at the time of the inspection, verify that the mooring pattern employed was in
accordance with both the mooring plan published by the terminal and the Mooring System Management
Plan. (Where the number of mooring lines required to be utilised between the terminal and vessel mooring
plans was different, the plan requiring the higher number of lines should be followed.)
• Where the terminal mooring plan required the use of swamp lines or other shore-lines to supplement the
vessel’s mooring system, verify that these lines had been utilised.
• Verify that the vessel’s mooring lines were deployed within the permitted horizontal angles to the
perpendicular of ships fore and aft axis and vertical angles of lines as documented within the Mooring
System Management Plan.
• Where the vessel was required to undertake a mooring analysis as part of the terminal acceptance process,
verify that the vessel had moored in accordance with the mooring analysis provided to the vessel.
• Where the vessel was involved in a double banking operation* verify that;
o A mooring analysis was available to confirm that both the inside and outside vessel were provided
with adequate restraint,
o That the inside vessel was not bearing the load of both vessels on its own moorings unless the
mooring analysis determined that the moorings deployed were sufficient for the forces of both
vessels,
o That both the inside and outside vessels were moored in accordance with the agreed mooring plan.
The mooring of a bunker barge or small coastal tanker to the outboard side does not constitute a double banking
operation*.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The Mooring System Management Plan.
• The terminal mooring plan, showing the positioning of a similar sized vessel in relationship to the terminal
mooring fittings, published in either the terminal handbook or an industry standard publication.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The passage plan, pilot card, cargo plan or risk assessment which showed the specific mooring layout that
was used at the terminal or berth.
• Where the vessel was required to be subject to a terminal compatibility assessment prior to berthing, the
mooring plan determined during the mooring assessment.
• Where the vessel was engaged in a double-banking alongside a berth, the agreed mooring plan for both the
inside and outside vessels.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The vessel was not provided with a Mooring System Management Plan (MSMP) which was in alignment
with MEG4.
• The Mooring System Management Plan was not developed to include the permissible mooring
configurations for optimal, sub-optimal and alternative mooring arrangements for conventional tanker berths
and, where used, conventional buoy moorings.
• The Mooring System Management Plan was not developed to show the maximum permitted deviation from
the horizontal angles of lines to the perpendicular of the ships fore and aft axis and vertical angles of lines.
• The accompanying deck officer was unfamiliar with the process for comparing the published or proposed
terminal mooring plan with the mooring configurations permitted within the Mooring System Management
Plan.
• The vessel was moored in a pattern that was not in accordance with the published terminal mooring plan.
• The vessel was moored in a pattern that was not in accordance with the mooring configurations permitted by
the Mooring System Management Plan.
• The vertical angle (in true elevation) of any mooring line exceeded the limit identified within the Mooring
System Management Plan.
• The vessel had deployed fewer lines than required by either the published terminal mooring plan or the
mooring configurations permitted by the Mooring System Management Plan.
• The vessel had not utilised supplementary shore-lines required by the terminal mooring plan.
• Where the vessel had been subject to a mooring analysis for the terminal or berth, the actual mooring
configuration was not in accordance with the plan developed through the mooring analysis.
• Where the vessel was double banked there was no analysis available to demonstrate that the mooring plan
had been verified as providing sufficient restraint for both the inside and outside vessels.
Where the terminal had not published a mooring plan and the vessel could demonstrate that it had made efforts to
obtain the plan through its operator or agent then make a comment under the Process response tool.
Where the vessel is not moored at the time of inspection, the inspector should follow the Suggested Inspector Actions
as far as possible, reviewing the Mooring System Management Plan and recent/planned mooring layouts against
terminal mooring plans.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
