## Question 9.1.3

**Paragraph Number:**
9.1.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, deck officers, and ratings involved with mooring operations,
familiar with the content of the Line Management Plan and was the plan maintained in
accordance with company instructions with mooring line, mooring tail and joining
shackle certificates available for each item included within the Line Management Plan?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Cargo Control Room, Mooring Decks
Publications
OCIMF: Effective Mooring. Fourth Edition 2019
OCIMF: Mooring Equipment Guidelines. Fourth Edition 2018 (MEG4)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that mooring lines, mooring tails and joining shackles are always in serviceable condition and
managed to avoid failure in service.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the mooring line, mooring tail and joining shackle certificates and verify that the vessel has an
effective process in place to identify each individual item and associate it with its location onboard and its
manufacturer’s product certificate.
• Review the Line Management Plan (LMP) and verify that, as a minimum, the four key categories and their
subcategories identified in table 5.2 (MEG4) had been addressed and populated with the relevant
information.
• Identify the stated service life criteria for mooring lines and mooring tails and verify that the lines and tails in
service were within the company’s stated service life criteria. This may be elapsed time or hours in service
since being brought into service and will be defined within the LMP.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Review the inspection history for the mooring lines and mooring tails and verify that inspections had been
carried out as required by the inspection intervals defined within the LMP.
• Review the inspection history and where a line had parted in service verify that an incident investigation
report was onboard that identified the causes of the line failure.
• Review the maintenance records and verify that mooring lines had been “end for ended” or moved to a
different service in accordance with the LMP to meet the wear zone management expectations.
• Identify whether the vessel operator permitted the splicing of mooring lines and if so verify that the persons
permitted to conduct the splicing had been identified within the LMP. Where specialist training was required
verify that the identified persons had received the training.
• During the physical inspection:
o Randomly inspect several accessible mooring lines, mooring tails and joining shackles and verify
that they were in apparent good order and that they were tagged or marked to permit identification
within the LMP and the associated retained product certificate.
o Where the vessel was provided with mooring tails connected to the mooring lines verify that the
connection method was in accordance with the LMP and MEG4 5.8.4, connection devices (MEG4
figure 5.20) or cow hitch (MEG4 Figure 5.21) and that these were correctly fitted.
o Interview at least one rating involved in mooring operations and verify that they were familiar with
the location of the LMP and, who was responsible for the splicing of the mooring lines or any other
relevant item that would confirm familiarity with the LMP and its content.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The Line Management Plan.
• The manufacturer’s product certificates for all mooring lines, mooring tails and joining shackles onboard.
• The SMS procedures that were referenced in the general section of the Line Management Plan.
• Incident investigation reports for any in service mooring line, mooring tail or joining shackle failures.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The vessel was not provided with a Line Management Plan (LMP).
• The vessel had not retained manufacturer’s product certificates for all mooring lines, mooring tails and
joining shackles onboard referenced against each item’s location.
• The LMP was not developed in alignment with the sections and subsections of MEG4 table 5.2, as a
minimum.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the content of the LMP and how the information was to be
recorded and managed within it.
• An interviewed rating who was involved with mooring operations was unfamiliar with the existence of the
LMP or content relevant to their role onboard.
• The LMP had not been maintained accurately. (Inspection determined that lines, tails or shackles were in
the wrong location or items were onboard which were not included in the LMP).
• Mooring line, mooring tail and joining shackle inspections had not been completed and documented in
accordance with the LMP.
• Mooring lines, mooring tails or joining shackles in use or provided as spares were in a condition that
indicated the inspection processes required under the LMP were ineffective.
• Joining shackles were fitted the wrong way around according to the shackle design.
• Mooring wires were connected to mooring tails using a cow hitch or an inappropriate shackle.
• A mooring line or mooring tail was in service beyond the stated company retirement criteria.
• A mooring line or mooring tail was in service which had suffered damage to such an extent that it should
have been taken out of service for repair or retirement.
• Splicing of mooring lines had been undertaken onboard but the resulting splices were not in accordance with
the line manufacturer’s instructions.
• Mooring lines had not been “end for ended” or rotated in service in accordance with the line management
plan wear zone management process.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• A mooring line, mooring tail or joining shackle had parted in service during the previous six months but there
was no incident investigation report onboard to document the causes of the failure.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
