## Question 9.1.4

**Paragraph Number:**
9.1.4

---

### **Question**
Did all mooring lines, mooring tails and joining shackles, including those carried as
spares, meet industry guidelines?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation
Publications
OCIMF: Mooring Equipment Guidelines. Fourth Edition 2018 (MEG4)

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that mooring lines, mooring tails and joining shackles are fit for the intended purpose to prevent
line failure in service.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the Mooring System Management Plan and identify the values for Ship Design MBL and the working
load limit (WLL) of the lines.
• Review the detailed list of mooring equipment and loose equipment and verify that;
o The mooring lines had a Line Design Break Force (LDBF) in the range of 100-105% of the Ship
Design MBL.
o The mooring tails, where provided, had a Tail Design Break Force (TDBF) in the range 125-130%
of the Ship Design MBL.
o The joining shackles, where provided, had a Safe Working Load (SWL) equal to, or greater than,
the working load limit (WLL) of the mooring lines in the system. (it is not expected that the SWL and
WLL exactly match).
• Where the vessel had a summary list of all mooring system loose equipment with the values of LDBF and
TDBF tabulated, verify that the values for the components were accurate by spot-checking the values
against several manufacturer’s product certificates.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The Mooring System Management Plan.
• The list of loose equipment (mooring lines, mooring tails and joining shackles)
• The file of manufacturer product certificates for all mooring lines, mooring tails and joining shackles.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The vessel was not provided with a Mooring Systems Management Plan (MSMP).
• The vessel did not have a file containing the manufacturer’s product certificates for all mooring lines,
mooring tails and joining shackles carried onboard.
• One or more mooring lines onboard, in service mounted on a winch, or loose or carried as a spare, had a
Line Design Break Force (LDBF) that was lower than 100% of the Ship Design MBL.
• One or more mooring tails carried onboard, either in service or carried as a spare, had a Tail Design Break
Force (TDBF) that was lower than 125% of the Ship Design MBL.
• One or more of the mooring joining shackles carried onboard, either in use or carried as a spare, had a Safe
Working Load (SWL) that was less than Working Load Limit (WLL) for the mooring lines in use onboard.
• Where one or more mooring lines carried onboard, either in service or carried as a spare, had a LDBF of
greater than 105% of the ship design MBL, make a comment in the Hardware response tool describing how
many lines were affected and what the actual LDBF was as a percentage of the ship design MBL.
• Where one or more mooring tails carried onboard, either in service or carried as a spare, had a TDBF of
greater than 130% of the ship design MBL, make a comment in the Hardware response tool describing how
many tails were affected and what the actual TDBF was as a percentage of the ship design MBL.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
9.2. Emergency Towing Arrangement
