## Question 9.1.1

**Paragraph Number:**
9.1.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and deck officers familiar with the company procedures for the
testing and correct operation of the mooring winch brakes, and were records available to
demonstrate that brakes had been tested periodically, after maintenance or when there
was evidence of premature brake slippage?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Cargo Control Room, Mooring Decks
Publications
IMO SOLAS
OCIMF: Mooring Equipment Guidelines. Fourth Edition 2018 (MEG4)
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that mooring winches function as designed, shedding excess load at a defined value in
accordance with the Ship Design MBL.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure for the testing and operation of the vessel’s
mooring winch brakes.
• Review the Mooring System Management Plan and verify that it contained the mooring winch brake testing
records or, where records were integrated within the ships document control system, that the location of the
mooring winch brake testing records was identified.
• Review the mooring winch brake testing records and verify that the brakes had been tested and adjusted to
render at 60% of the ship’s design MBL at least annually and after completion of any modification or
maintenance, or where there had been evidence of premature brake slippage or related malfunctions.
• During the physical inspection of the vessel verify that winches were marked with:
o The correct reeling direction (MEG4 6.3.4.2).
o The date of the last brake test ((MEG 6.4.6.1).
o The primary brake holding load value as set (MEG4 6.3.6).
o The torque setting value where a brake is set with a torque wrench (MEG4 6.4.6.5).
o The pressure gauge setting value where a brake is initially applied by a hydraulic assist (MEG4

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company mooring procedures which included the use and testing of mooring winches fitted to the
vessel.
• The Mooring System Management Plan, where provided.
• The Line Management Plan.
• The mooring winch brake testing records.
• The calibration test certificate for the brake testing equipment pressure gauge where testing equipment
carried.
• The winch manufacturer’s instructions for the testing of the mooring winch brakes.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Mooring winch maintenance records since the last annual winch test where repairs or component
replacement had been performed on any part of a winch drum brake assembly or mechanism.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which provided instructions for the use and testing of the mooring
winches brakes fitted to the vessel.
• The vessel was not provided with a Mooring System Management Plan (MSMP) which was in alignment
with MEG4.
• The accompanying deck officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation, setting and
testing of the mooring winch brakes.
• The accompanying deck officer or observed crew were not familiar with the operation and setting of the
mooring winch brakes.
• The brake testing equipment was not maintained in good condition, or the hydraulic jack pressure gauge
had not been calibrated before use where brake testing equipment was carried.
• The mooring winch brakes had not been periodically tested in accordance with the company procedure or
the Mooring System Management Plan requirements.
• The mooring winch brakes had not been tested on completion of any repairs or maintenance which affected
the mooring winch brake mechanism assembly.
• The mooring winch brakes had not been retested where there had been evidence of premature brake
slippage or related malfunctions.
• The mooring winch drums were not marked with the date of the previous test, the primary brake load
capacity, the reeling direction or the brake setting torque or hydraulic brake assist setting pressure (as
applicable to the brake type).
• The brake on any single mooring drum in active mooring service was observed to be incorrectly set.
• A stopper arrangement, e.g. a locking nut on the threaded end, was used on the tightening screw of the
brake to set the brake torque.
• A mooring line was reeled onto a mooring drum in the wrong direction for the correct operation of the brake
mechanism.
• Where the vessel was provided with split drums there was more than one layer of line on the tension side of
a drum.
• Where the vessel was provided with split drums there were insufficient turns of line, as determined by the
company procedure or MSMP, on the tension side of the drum.
• The mooring winch drum brake mechanisms, brake drums or brake band linings were apparently defective
on any mooring winch. This would include where brake drums had more than a light layer of superficial
surface rust.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
