## Question 9.2.1

**Paragraph Number:**
9.2.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and all officers familiar with the vessel specific emergency towing
procedure, and was the emergency towing equipment, where fitted, in satisfactory
condition and ready for immediate use?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Aft Mooring Deck, Bridge, Forecastle, Cargo Control Room
Publications
IMO SOLAS
IMO: MSC.1/Circ.1255 Guidelines for Owners/Operators on Preparing Emergency Towing Procedures
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that the vessel crew are familiar with the emergency towing procedure, and that the emergency
towing equipment, where required to be fitted, is ready for immediate use.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the vessel specific emergency towing procedure (Emergency Towing Booklet - ETB).
• Verify a copy of the ETB was available on the bridge, in the ship’s office or cargo control room and in the
forecastle space.
• Where fitted, inspect the emergency towing arrangements fitted to the vessel and verify that the emergency
towing procedure (ETB) is aligned with the equipment provided.
• Inspect the physical condition of the emergency towing equipment and confirm that all visible and accessible
parts are functional with evidence of recent maintenance.
• Verify, by sampling, that the ancillary equipment listed in the emergency towing procedure (ETB) is present
in the correct location.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify they understand how to deploy the emergency towing
equipment.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• Vessel specific emergency towing procedure (Emergency Towing Booklet - ETB).

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The emergency towing procedure (ETB) was not based on the existing arrangements and equipment fitted
on board.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the vessel specific emergency towing procedure (ETB).
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the emergency towing equipment fitted to the vessel.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the process of deploying the emergency towing equipment
fitted to the vessel.
• The emergency towing procedure (ETB) was not available on the bridge, in the ship’s office or cargo control
room and in the forecastle space.
• The emergency towing arrangements were defective in any respect.
• The ancillary equipment listed in the emergency towing procedure (ETB) was missing, in the wrong location
or defective in any way.
• The emergency towing equipment was not ready for immediate use in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
9.3. Mooring and Anchoring Procedures
