## Question 9.3.1

**Paragraph Number:**
9.3.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and deck officers familiar with the company procedures for
anchoring operations, and were records available to confirm that recent anchoring
operations had been conducted in compliance with company expectations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Forecastle
Publications
OCIMF Anchoring Systems and Procedures 2010 edition
IACS Unified Requirements A: Requirements concerning Mooring
Anchoring and Towing
IACS: UR A3 Anchor Windlass Design and Testing
ICS: Bridge Procedures Guide – Fifth Edition
IMO: ISM Code
INTERTANKO: Anchoring Guidelines: A Risk-Based Approach v.3 June 2020

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that anchoring operations are conducted within the limitations of the equipment fitted to the
vessel

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the company procedures for anchoring operations.
• Verify that the anchoring procedures gave guidance relating to:
o The maximum depth of water for normal anchoring operations.
o The maximum recommended wind strength and wave height for anchoring.
o The weather conditions when the company requires the vessel to depart an anchorage.
o The required level of supervision for the anchoring party.
o The minimum composition of the anchoring party.
o The required checks on the windlass, anchors, stoppers and power systems prior to use.
• Review a recent anchoring operation to:
o Verify that the necessary appraisal and planning checklists were completed prior to the operation.
o Verify that checks on the windlass, anchor, stopper and power systems had been completed prior
to the operation.
o Verify that the weather conditions during the time at anchor were within the company guidelines for
remaining at anchor.
o Verify that the depth of water at the anchoring location was within the limits provided by the
company.
During the physical inspection:
• Inspect the windlass, anchors, chain and stoppers and verify that they were in satisfactory condition.
• Verify that the accompanying officer was familiar with the anchor brake adjustment setting and other checks
on equipment required to be completed prior to and after anchoring.
• Verify that the anchors were free to be used in an emergency – anchor chain not hard up against the
stopper bar when in port or at sea.
• Verify that, when the vessel was in port, the anchor lashings were removed unless specifically required to be
in place in accordance with terminal regulations.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for anchoring operations.
• Records and checklists for recent anchoring operations.
• Recent checklist and/or maintenance record to demonstrate that the windlass brake setting had been
checked.
• Bridge Log Book and bell book.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures with supporting checklists which covered the process of anchoring and
included:
o The selection of an anchorage taking into account the proximity and density of other vessels at
anchor, the quality of the seabed and the proximity of navigational dangers.
o The maximum depth of water permitted for normal anchoring operations.
o The required level of supervision of the anchoring party.
o The minimum composition of the anchoring party.
o The maximum environmental conditions permitted for anchoring.
o The environmental conditions at which the vessel would be expected to have departed an
anchorage.
o The checks required to be carried out for the anchoring equipment and power system prior to, and
upon completion of, anchoring operations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the company procedures for anchoring operations.
• The vessel had anchored, or remained at anchor, with environmental conditions in excess of the limits
provided by the company.
• The vessel had anchored in a water depth that exceeded the limit set by the company.
• The maximum anchorage depth in metres was not either marked on the windlass or posted on the bridge.
• The checks required to be completed prior to and during anchoring operations had not been completed as
required.
• The anchoring systems (windlass, anchor, chain, stoppers, power system) were defective in any respect.
• The accompanying officer was unable to demonstrate how to verify that the windlass brake was correctly
adjusted.
• When in coastal waters and port the anchors were not free to use in an emergency – the chain was resting
against the stopper bar preventing it being lifted without the use of the windlass.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
9.4. Mooring and Anchoring Team Management
