## Question 9.4.2

**Paragraph Number:**
9.4.2

---

### **Question**
Were the deck officers and ratings involved with mooring operations familiar with
the safe operation of the mooring winches and the dangers of working with and around
mooring lines during mooring operations and while under tension?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Control Room, Mooring Decks
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
OCIMF: Effective Mooring. Fourth Edition 2019

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that vessel personnel are aware of the dangers of working with mooring equipment and near lines
under tension.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the mooring procedure which included operational safety during
mooring operations and in areas where mooring lines were under tension.
During the physical inspection verify that:
• The winch drums were out of gear and pins were available to lock the clutch in position while engaged and
disengaged.
• The mooring winch control levers were free to move and returned to the neutral position when released.
• The mooring winch control levers were clearly marked with the direction of heave and slack.
• That there was no evidence that the mooring winch controls had been tied or secured to permit unmanned
operation.
• The winch controls were mounted to give the operator a clear sight of the operational working area and
other mooring team members.
• The working platforms around the winches gave uninterrupted safe access to mooring drums and winch
controls.
• The winch controls were sited to make sure that the operator was not at risk from moving parts.
• Stoppers in use were appropriate for the types of mooring line in service and were of sufficient strength.
• Warning signs and barriers were in place to warn personnel of the dangers posed by mooring operations
and mooring lines under tension.
• Interview one deck officer and one rating who had been involved in mooring operations to establish how
they had been informed of the dangers of snap-back and how to keep safe during mooring operations.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company mooring procedure which defined operational safety during mooring operations or in areas
where mooring lines were under tension.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which included the considerations for operational safety during mooring
operations or in areas where mooring lines were under tension.
• A deck officer or rating involved in mooring operations was unfamiliar with the company mooring procedure
which defined the considerations for operational safety during mooring operations and in areas where there
were mooring lines under tension.
• A deck officer or rating involved in mooring operations was unfamiliar with the danger of snap-back and how
this was communicated onboard the vessel prior to and after mooring operations.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interviews with deck officers or ratings involved in mooring operations indicated that toolbox talks were not
taking place prior to each mooring operation.
• Ship’s personnel or visitors were observed stepping over lines under tension when there was a route which
avoided the need to do so.
• There were no warning signs or barriers to prevent personnel from approaching a mooring line under
tension.
• The mooring drums were left in gear while the drum was in active mooring service with the brake applied.
• The safety locking pins for the winch drum clutch mechanisms were missing or not used.
• The mooring winch control levers were stiff and did not return to the neutral position when released.
• The mooring winch controls were not clearly marked with the direction of heave and slack.
• There was evidence that mooring winch controls had been fastened in the heave or slack position at some
point in the past.
• The winch control and drum access platforms were damaged, uneven or had missing plates.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
9.5. STS Operation Management
