## Question 9.4.1

**Paragraph Number:**
9.4.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, deck officers and deck ratings familiar with the company
procedure that defined mooring team supervision and composition for the various
mooring and anchoring operations likely to be undertaken, and was evidence available
that each mooring work space had been supervised and manned in accordance with
company expectations?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Documentation, Cargo Control Room, Mooring Decks
Publications
OCIMF: Mooring Equipment Guidelines. Fourth Edition 2018 (MEG4)
IMO: STCW Code
OCIMF: Effective Mooring. Fourth Edition 2019
INTERTANKO: Anchoring Guidelines: A Risk-Based Approach v.3 June 2020
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that mooring and anchoring operations are always properly supervised with enough personnel
assigned to conduct the operations safely and efficiently at each mooring or anchoring workspace.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedure which defined the supervision and composition
of mooring and anchoring teams.
• Review the sections of MSMP relating to Manning and Training, and Mooring Operations Plans and
Procedures and verify that they had been developed to include detail of the mooring team composition and
workspace supervisor.
• Where the company procedure required the review of a risk assessment prior to a mooring or anchoring
operation, review the risk assessment for a recent operation and verify that it reflected the operation
undertaken.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• Interview one deck officer and one rating involved in mooring operations to understand who supervised
mooring and anchoring operations during recent operations and whether there was a clear understanding of
the company expectations around mooring team composition, supervision and toolbox talks prior to each
operation.
• While conducting the review of hours of rest records, consider the required mooring and anchoring team
composition and verify that vessel records gave an accurate representation of the vessel complement
involvement in mooring and anchoring operations.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedure which defined the mooring and anchoring team composition and workspace
supervision expectations.
• The hours of rest records for the previous full month.
• The vessel’s Mooring System Management Plan sections:
o Manning and Training – Safe manning levels required by the ship’s SMS,
o Mooring Operations Plans and Procedures - Requirements for operations supervision at each
mooring workspace.
• Where an unlicenced crewmember was nominated as an acceptable mooring or anchoring workspace
supervisor, the records of the training courses and competency assessment required by the relevant
sections of the MSMP.
• Where required to be reviewed prior to an operation by company procedures, the risk assessments for
recent mooring and anchoring operations.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• MSMP sections, relating to Manning and Training and Mooring Operations Plans and Procedures, had not
been developed to specify the mooring or anchoring team composition or identified the required level of
supervision at each mooring workspace.
• The accompanying deck officer was unable to identify the company procedure defining who should
supervise each mooring and anchoring workspace and the minimum workspace composition when
requested to do so.
• An interviewed deck officer or rating involved in mooring operations was unfamiliar with the company
expectations with regards to mooring or anchoring team composition or workspace supervision.
• Review of hours of rest or other records determined that the company expectations relating to mooring or
anchoring team composition or supervision had not been complied with.
• Where an unlicenced crew member was permitted to supervise an anchoring or mooring workstation there
was no evidence that they had completed the training courses or the competency assessment as required
by the company for fulfilling the role.
• Where the company procedure permitted an unlicenced crewmember to supervise a mooring or anchoring
workspace enter a comment in the Process response tool and describe the circumstances in which this was
permitted.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
