## Question 9.5.2

**Paragraph Number:**
9.5.2

---

### **Question**
Where the vessel was involved in an “at sea” STS operation, was an accurate Joint
Plan of Operation available onboard, were the Master and deck officers familiar with its
content, and were operations being conducted in accordance with its requirements?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Cargo Control Room, Interview - Deck Officer, Interview - Deck Rating, Documentation
Publications
OCIMF: Ship to Ship Transfer Guide for Petroleum
Chemicals and Liquefied Gases. First Edition.
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that each “at sea” ship to ship (STS) operations is planned and executed taking into consideration
the operational and environmental requirements for the specific transfer location, vessels and cargo transfer
operations involved.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the Joint Plan of Operations for the STS operation and verify that:
o The plan contained all information required by the OCIMF* guidance.
o The risk assessment(s) had been developed to address the risks of the specific location and type of
STS operation being undertaken.
o The means for eliminating the potential for incendive sparking between the two ships had been
addressed.
o There was evidence that any mandatory notifications to comply with local or government
requirements had been made.
o That the vessel had been moored in accordance with the agreed mooring plan.
o That the vessel was complying with any environmental operating parameters.
o The unmooring sequence was documented.
• Interview one deck officer and one deck rating to gauge their level of understanding of the Joint Plan of
Operation for the STS operation being undertaken.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures which required the development of a Joint Plan of Operation for every STS
operation.
• The vessel’s STS Operations Plan.
• The Joint Plan of Operation for the STS operation, developed by the STS service provider, the STS
organiser, the STS Superintendent or the Person in overall advisory control (POAC) depending on the
circumstances of the operation.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no procedure which required that a Joint Plan of Operation (JPO) was developed for every STS
operation.
• The vessel did not have onboard a JPO which reflected the specific STS operation being undertaken.
• The JPO did not include all information required by the OCIMF* STS Guide relevant to the operation being
undertaken.
• The accompanying deck officer was unfamiliar with the company procedure which required a JPO to be
developed for every STS operation.
• The accompanying deck officer was unfamiliar with the content of the JPO.
• An interviewed deck officer or deck rating had not been briefed regarding the content of the JPO prior to the
commencement of the STS operation.
• The risk assessment contained in the JPO did not reflect the location or type of STS operation that was
being undertaken.
• The JPO did not address the measures in place to eliminate the potential for incendive arcing between the
two vessels.
• The measures to eliminate incendive arcing identified within the JPO had not been implemented.
• There was no evidence that the mandatory notifications to comply with local or government regulations had
been made.
• The vessel was not moored in accordance with the JPO.
• The vessel had continued the STS operation or cargo transfer operations despite the environmental
operating parameters being exceeded.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
