## Question 9.5.1

**Paragraph Number:**
9.5.1

---

### **Question**
Were the appropriate industry checklists used during STS operations, and were
comprehensive records of these operations maintained?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Cargo Control Room, Mooring Decks
Publications
OCIMF: Ship to Ship Transfer Guide for Petroleum
Chemicals and Liquefied Gases. First Edition.
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that all stages of an STS operation are conducted in accordance with industry best practice
guidance.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures which required the vessel to use the checklists
identified by the OCIMF* STS Transfer Guide.
• Where the vessel was involved in an STS operation, review the STS checklists completed during the
operation thus far and verify that the correct checklists, including a standard pre-transfer checklist, had been
utilised and that they had been completed appropriately.
• Where the vessel had conducted STS operations during the previous twelve months, select the records for
an STS operation at random and verify that the following records were available as applicable to the
operation:
o The JPO (Joint Plan of operations) as provided by the service provider,
o Risk assessment as submitted by the Service Provider,
o Detailed Mooring Plan of participating vessels.
o Copies of certificates of fenders and hoses,
o Notification to coastal authorities,
o Details of Drills associated with the specific STS Operation,
o Records of Crew Experience,
o Post operation feedback/ assessment by the Master.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
– SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
• The company procedure which required the vessel to use the checklists identified by the OCIMF* STS
Transfer Guide.
• The company procedure which required the retention of STS checklists and records.
• Where the vessel was undertaking an STS operation at the time of the inspection, the STS checklists,
standard pre-transfer checklist and, vapour balancing checklist where this was taking place.
• The records for STS operations completed during the previous twelve months or, where numerous
operations had been undertaken, records for the previous six operations.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There was no company procedure which required the vessel to use the checklists identified by the OCIMF*
STS Transfer Guide.
• There was no company procedure which required that comprehensive STS records were maintained
onboard.
• The accompanying deck officer was not familiar with the company procedure for the use of checklists during
STS operations.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedure for the retention of records relating
to STS operations.
• Review of checklists in use at the time of the inspection or from past STS operations indicated that the
wrong STS checklists were used i.e. “at sea” checklists were used for “in port” operations or vice-versa.
• Individual STS checklists were either not used or missing.
• Review of individual STS checklists identified that items had been checked off, but the required evidence
was missing.
• Standard pre-transfer checklists had not been used to supplement the STS checklists.
• Where vapour balancing had been conducted there was no vapour balancing checklist used.
• Physical inspection of the vessel during an STS operation determined that checks required by the STS
checklists had not been accomplished.
• Repetitive checks required by the STS checklists had not been completed.
• Review of records for past STS operations identified that checklists or required records were missing.
• Review of completed “in port” pre -transfer STS checklists indicated that the confirmation of checks and
signatures required from the second vessel, and the terminal where applicable, involved in the STS
operation had not been completed.
Where the ship had never been involved in an STS operation as described by the OCIMF joint industry publication
and there was no future intention to do so, select “Not Answerable” in each of the response tools then select "Not
Applicable - as instructed by question guidance".
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
