## Question 9.5.3

**Paragraph Number:**
9.5.3

---

### **Question**
Were the Master, officers and deck ratings familiar with the vessel’s STS
Operations Plan?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Bridge, Cargo Control Room, Main Deck, Engine Control Room
Publications
IMO: MARPOL
OCIMF: Ship to Ship Transfer Guide for Petroleum
Chemicals and Liquefied Gases. First Edition.
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that ship to ship (STS) mooring & cargo operations are always planned and conducted in a
consistent manner.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Review the STS Operations Plan and verify that:
o A copy of the STS Operations Plan is located on the bridge, in the cargo transfer station and in the
Engine room.
o Where the vessel carries MARPOL Annex 1 cargo, the STS Operations plan has been approved by
the administration.
o Where the vessel did not carry MARPOL Annex 1 cargo, the STS Operations Plan was developed
in alignment with Annex A of the OCIMF* Ship to Ship Transfer Guide.
o Where the vessel was involved in an STS operation, that the STS Operations Plan had been
updated with:
 The mooring plan for the current operation.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
 The cargo plan for the current operation.
• Where the vessel was involved in an STS operation during the inspection or had conducted an STS
operation within the previous two months, interview one rating and gauge their familiarity with the location
and content of the STS Operations Plan.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s STS Operations Plan.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• The vessel did not have an STS Operations Plan. (irrespective of whether the vessel had been involved in
STS operations.)
• Where the vessel had been involved in the STS transfer of Annex 1 cargo the STS plan had not been
approved by the vessel’s Administration. (except where specifically exempted by MARPOL Annex 1
Regulation 40)
• Where the vessel was not involved in the carriage of Annex 1 cargo, the content of the STS Operations Plan
was not in alignment with Annex A of the OCIMF Ship to Ship Transfer Guide.
• The onboard STS Operations Plan were found to be outdated or incomplete.
• One or more copies of the STS Operations Plan was missing from the following locations; bridge, cargo
transfer control station or engine room.
• The accompanying officer was unfamiliar with the location and content of the STS Operations Plan.
• An interviewed deck rating who was onboard during a recent STS operation was unfamiliar with the location
and content of the STS Operations Plan.
Where the ship had never been involved in an STS operation as described by the OCIMF joint industry publication
and there was no future intention to do so, select “Not Answerable” in the Process and Human response tools then
select "Not Applicable - as instructed by question guidance".
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
9.6. Single Point Mooring
