## Question 9.6.2

**Paragraph Number:**
9.6.2

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for mooring at
an SPM or F(P)SO and were the fittings required accurately described in the HVPQ?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil, Chemical, LPG, LNG

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Forecastle, Documentation
Publications
OCIMF Guidelines for Offshore Tanker Operations
IMO: ISM Code

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the vessel is appropriately equipped and will be able to safely moor to an SPM or F(P)SO terminal.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for mooring at SPM or F(P)SO terminals.
• Sight, and where necessary review, the certificates for the bow stoppers and closed bow fairleads,
particularly if these have been modified or retro-fitted.
• Sight, and where necessary review, the records of inspection and maintenance of the bow stoppers
• Inspect the arrangements at the bow for mooring to an SPM or F(P)SO terminal.
• During the inspection verify, as far as practicable, that the HVPQ accurately describes the arrangements for
mooring at an SPM or F(P)SO terminal.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for mooring at
SPM or F(P)SO terminals.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for mooring at SPM or F(P)SO terminals.
• Mooring arrangement plan(s).
• Certificates, issued by an independent authority, such as a Classification Society, for the:
o Bow stopper(s) and/or foundations and supporting structure.
o Closed bow fairlead(s) and/or foundations and supporting structure.
• Records of inspection and maintenance of the bow stoppers, which may form part of the maintenance plan.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for mooring at SPM or F(P)SO terminals that included:
o Guidance on preparations for mooring at SPM or F(P)SO terminals.
o Instructions for safe mooring at SPM or F(P)SO terminals.
o Inspection and maintenance instructions for the bow stopper(s).
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for mooring at SPM or F(P)SO
terminals, as they related to their duties.
• The actual physical arrangements for mooring at an SPM or F(P)SO terminal were not as described in the
HVPQ - provide details.
• There was no certificate, issued by an independent authority, such as a Classification Society, available for
the:
o Bow stopper(s) and/or foundations and supporting structure.
o Closed bow fairlead(s) and/or foundations and supporting structure.
• The bow stopper(s) was not permanently marked with the SWL and appropriate serial number.
• The SWL of the closed bow fairlead(s) was less than the SWL of the bow stopper(s).
• There were no records of inspection and maintenance of the bow stopper(s).
• There was an obstruction or fitting (e.g. a hatch with securing dogs) close to the route of the pick-up line or
chain.
• At the SPM or FS(P)O terminal where the inspection took place:
o The winch stowage drum was not of sufficient size to accommodate the pick-up line.
o The winch warping drum had been used to handle the pick-up line.
o Wedges had been used between the pin and tongue of the bow chain stopper(s).
o A Smit type towing bracket had been used as a bow chain stopper.
• A bow stopper(s), roller lead(s) or closed bow fairlead(s) was defective in any respect.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
9.7. Shuttle Tanker Mooring Systems
