## Question 9.6.1

**Paragraph Number:**
9.6.1

---

### **Question**
Were the vapour collection system manifold arrangements suitable for hose
handling at buoy moorings?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Cargo Manifold
Publications
OCIMF/CDI: Recommendations for Oil and Chemical Tanker Manifolds and Associated Equipment

---

### **Objective**
To ensure that vapour collection system manifolds are suitably designed and equipped to facilitate hose
handling at buoy moorings.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Inspect the vapour collection system manifolds and verify that the required fittings are in place.

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The vessel’s mooring arrangement plan.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
For a vapour return system manifold (VRSM) which was designed for use at single buoy moorings:
• The vapour manifolds were not supported to the same strength as the cargo manifolds.
• Hose rails did not extend beyond the vapour manifolds.
• Hose rails serving the vapour manifolds were not:
o Of the same strength and construction throughout their length.
o Fitted with stopper plates at both the forward and aft ends of the hose rails.
• The vapour manifolds were not fitted with the necessary:
o Closed chocks.
o Cruciform bollards.
o Deck pad-eyes.
• The fittings for securing the vapour hose were not permanently marked with their safe working load (SWL).
• There were no means to drain the vapour manifold to avoid risk of liquid carry-over into the floating hose.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
