## Question 9.7.1

**Paragraph Number:**
9.7.1

---

### **Question**
Were the Master and officers familiar with the company procedures for the
operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the bow mooring system for offshore
terminals, and was the equipment in satisfactory condition?

---

### **Vessel Types**
Oil

---

### **ROVIQ Sequence**
Forecastle
Publications
IMO: ISM Code
Norwegian Oil and Gas recommended guidelines for offshore loading shuttle tankers Guideline No. 140
OCIMF Guidelines for Offshore Tanker Operations

---

### **Objective**
To ensure the bow mooring system is regularly inspected, tested, and maintained, and operated safely.

---

### **Suggested Inspector Actions**
• Sight, and where necessary review, the company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and
maintenance of the bow mooring system for offshore terminals.
• Review the records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the bow mooring system for offshore
terminals.
• During the physical inspection of the vessel inspect the bow mooring system for offshore terminals including:
o Bow fairlead.
o Hardwood deck protection.
o Chain stopper.
o Guide roller.
o Traction winch.
o Manual brake release.
o Rope pulling unit.
o Service crane.
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
o Hydraulic power-pack.
o Messenger line cutter.
• Where necessary, compare the observed condition with the records of inspection, testing and maintenance
of the bow mooring system for offshore terminals.
• Interview the accompanying officer to verify their familiarity with the company procedures for the operation,
inspection, testing and maintenance of the bow mooring system for offshore terminals including:
o Measures to prevent accidental release of the chafe chain from the bow stopper.
o Use of the traction winch manual brake release in the event of a power failure.
o Use of the messenger line cutter device designed to enable cutting the line if sucked into the
thruster(s) / propeller(s).

---

### **Expected Evidence**
• The company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the bow mooring system
for offshore terminals.
• Records of inspection, testing and maintenance of the bow mooring system for offshore terminals.

---

### **Potential Grounds for a Negative Observation**
• There were no company procedures for the operation, inspection, testing and maintenance of the bow
mooring system for offshore terminals.
• The accompanying officer was not familiar with the company procedures for the operation, inspection,
testing and maintenance of the bow mooring system for offshore terminals including:
o Measures to prevent accidental release of the chafe chain from the bow stopper.
o Use of the traction winch manual brake release in the event of a power failure.
o Use of the messenger line cutter device designed to enable cutting the line if sucked into the
thruster(s) / propeller(s).
• There were no records, or records were incomplete, of inspection, testing and maintenance of the bow
mooring system for offshore terminals.
• There were no records to show that the time taken for the chain stopper to open and close had been tested,
and that operation was within the recommended 30 seconds.
• The chain stopper was not marked with its SWL.
• The bow fairlead was not constructed of stainless steel or was not covered with a spark free cladding.
• The deck area between the chain stopper and the fairlead was not protected by 75mm thick hardwood, or
there were sections of hardwood missing or damaged.
• Recess studs bolts/nuts, fixing the hardwood layer to the deck were not covered with hardwood plugs, or
some of the plugs were missing.
• There was no tension monitor installed to measure the tension in the hawser during the loading operation.
• The manual brake release for the traction winch for use in the event of a power failure was not located in a
safe area that would protect the operator from debris during the release of the brake.
• Traction winch motors, cables, valves and pipes were not properly protected from mechanical impact.
• The traction winch was not fitted with a bolted cover to protect the brakes.
• The rope pulling unit was not fitted with protection devices to prevent the operator from accidentally coming
into contact with the rotating reels.
• The operators view of the rope stowing area was obscured in some way.
• The bow mooring system for offshore terminals was defective in any respect.
10. Machinery Spaces
10.1. Engineering Procedures
 – SIRE 2.0 Question Library Part 2 – Version 1.0 (January 2022)
